
# 8. Obesity and Weight Management

American Diabetes Association

Professional Practice Committee for Diabetes*

Diabetes Care 2026;49(Suppl. 1):S166–S182 | https://doi.org/10.2337/dc26-S008

The American Diabetes Association (ADA) “Standards of Care in Diabetes” includes the ADA’s current clinical practice recommendations and is intended to provide the components of diabetes care, general treatment goals and guidelines, and tools to evaluate quality of care. Members of the ADA Professional Practice Committee for Diabetes, an interprofessional expert committee, are responsible for updating the Standards of Care annually, or more frequently as warranted. For a detailed description of ADA standards, statements, and reports, as well as the evidence-grading system for ADA’s clinical practice recommendations and a full list of Professional Practice Committee members, please refer to Introduction and Methodology. Readers who wish to comment on the Standards of Care are invited to do so at professional.diabetes.org/SOC.

Obesity is a chronic, often relapsing disease with numerous metabolic, physical, and psychosocial complications, including a substantially increased risk for the development and progression of type 2 diabetes (1). There is strong and consistent evidence that obesity management can delay the progression from prediabetes to type 2 diabetes (2–6) and is highly beneficial in treating type 2 diabetes (7–15). In people with type 2 diabetes and overweight or obesity, modest weight loss improves glycemia and reduces the need for glucose-lowering medications, particularly insulin (7,16,17), and greater weight loss substantially reduces A1C and fasting glucose and may promote sustained diabetes remission (9,18–21). Metabolic surgery, which results in an average >20% body weight loss, greatly improving glycemia and often leading to remission of diabetes, improved quality of life, improved cardiovascular outcomes, and reduced mortality (22,23). Several therapeutic modalities, including intensive behavioral and lifestyle counseling, obesity pharmacotherapy, and metabolic surgery, may aid in achieving and maintaining meaningful weight loss and reducing obesity-associated health risks. This section aims to provide evidence-based recommendations for obesity and weight management, including behavioral, pharmacologic, and surgical interventions, in people with, or at high risk of, diabetes. Additional considerations regarding weight management in older individuals and children and adolescents can be found in section 13, “Older Adults,” and section 14, “Children and Adolescents.”

# ASSESSMENT AND MONITORING OF THE INDIVIDUAL WITH OVERWEIGHT OR OBESITY

# Recommendations

8.1 Use person-centered, nonjudgmental language that fosters collaboration between individuals and health care professionals, including person-first language.

*A complete list of members of the American Diabetes Association Professional Practice Committee for Diabetes can be found at https://doi.org/10.2337/dc26-SINT.

This section has received endorsement from The Obesity Society.

Duality of interest information for each contributor is available at https://doi.org/10.2337/dc26-SDIS.

Suggested citation: American Diabetes Association Professional Practice Committee for Diabetes. 8. Obesity and weight management for the prevention and treatment of diabetes: Standards of Care in Diabetes—2026. Diabetes Care 2026;49 (Suppl. 1):S166–S182.

© 2025 by the American Diabetes Association. Readers may use this work for educational, noncommercial purposes if properly cited and unaltered. The version of record may be linked at https://diabetesjournals.org/care, but ADA permission is required to post this work on any third-party site or platform. This publication and its contents may not be reproduced, distributed, or used for text or data mining, machine learning, or similar technologies without prior written permission. Requests to reuse, adapt, or distribute this work may be sent to permissions@diabetes.org. More information is available at https://diabetesjournals.org/journals/pages/license.

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S166/848839/dc26s008.pdf from Downloaded





diabetesjournals.org/care
# Obesity and Weight Management

(e.g., “person with obesity” rather than “obese person” and “person with diabetes” rather than “diabetic person”).

# 8.2

Screen for overweight and obesity using BMI annually. To confirm excess adiposity, additional assessments of body fat using anthropometric assessments (e.g., waist-to-hip ratio) or direct measurements (e.g., dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry, bioelectrical impedance analysis) could be considered where available/feasible.

# 8.2a

Monitor obesity-related anthropometric measurements at least annually to inform treatment considerations. During active weight management treatment, increase monitoring to at least every 3 months.

# 8.3

Accommodations should be made to provide privacy during anthropometric measurements.

# 8.4

In people with type 2 diabetes and overweight or obesity, weight management should represent a primary goal of treatment along with glycemic management.

# 8.5

Provide weight management treatment, aiming for any magnitude of weight loss. Weight loss of 5–7% of baseline weight improves glycemia and other intermediate cardiovascular risk factors. A sustained loss of >10% of body weight usually confers greater benefits, including disease-modifying effects and possible remission of type 2 diabetes and may improve long-term cardiovascular outcomes and mortality.

# 8.6

Individualize initial treatment approaches for obesity (i.e., lifestyle and nutritional therapy, pharmacologic therapy, or metabolic surgery) based on the person’s medical history, life circumstances, and preferences. Consider combining treatment approaches if appropriate.

Obesity is a key pathophysiologic driver of diabetes, other cardiovascular risk factors (e.g., hypertension, hyperlipidemia, metabolic dysfunction–associated steatotic liver disease [MASLD], and inflammatory state), and ultimately cardiovascular and kidney disease. Diabetes can further exacerbate obesity, including through the use of glucose-lowering therapies that lead to weight gain (e.g., insulin, sulfonylurea, and pioglitazone), and obesity can exacerbate hyperglycemia and diabetes, thereby setting up a vicious cycle that contributes to disease progression and occurrence of microvascular and macrovascular complications.

As such, treatment goals for both glycemia and weight are recommended in people with diabetes to address both hyperglycemia and its underlying pathophysiologic driver (obesity) and therefore benefit the person holistically.

Health care professionals should advise individuals with overweight or obesity and those with increasing weight trajectories that, in general, greater fat accumulation increases the risk of diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and all-cause mortality and has multiple adverse health and quality of life consequences.

Health care professionals should also assess readiness to engage in weight management.




# Obesity and Weight Management

# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

Behavioral changes for weight loss and for people with type 2 diabetes and overweight or obesity to achieve both weight and health outcome goals. B

8.14 Counsel and regularly monitor individuals pursuing intentional weight loss to ensure adequate nutritional intake, with particular attention to preventing protein insufficiency and micronutrient deficiencies. E

8.8a Interventions including high frequency of counseling (≥16 sessions in 6 months) with focus on nutrition changes, physical activity, and behavioral strategies to achieve a 500–750 kcal/day energy deficit (irrespective of macronutrient composition) should be recommended for weight loss when available. A

8.8b If access to such interventions is limited, consider alternative structured programs delivering nutrition changes, physical activity, and behavioral counseling (e.g., remote, telehealth, mobile app). E

For a more detailed discussion of lifestyle management approaches and recommendations, see section 5, “Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being to Improve Health Outcomes.” For a detailed discussion of nutrition-specific interventions, please refer to “Nutrition Therapy for Adults With Diabetes or Prediabetes: A Consensus Report” (60).

# Behavioral Interventions

Numerous behavioral interventions have demonstrated positive effects from reducing energy intake, increasing physical activity, or some combination of these key lifestyle behaviors (61). The Look AHEAD (Action for Health in Diabetes) randomized controlled trial (RCT) demonstrated that people with obesity and type 2 diabetes could achieve and maintain long-term (up to 8 years after trial conclusion) weight loss by participating in a prospective intensive lifestyle intervention (ILI). Approximately half of ILI participants lost and maintained ≥5% of their initial body weight (46). Additionally, compared with the diabetes support and education group, ILI participants who lost ≥10% at 1 year had a 21% reduced risk of mortality (hazard ratio 0.79 [95% CI 0.67, 0.94]; P = 0.007) (62). Culturally tailoring behavioral interventions could be an additional useful tool for improving the impact of interventions (63–65).

To achieve significant weight loss with lifestyle behavior change programs, creating a 500–750 kcal/day energy deficit is recommended. For most women, this is equal to consuming approximately 1,200–1,500 kcal/day, and for most men, this is equal to consuming approximately 1,500–1,800 kcal/day, with adjustment for the individual’s baseline body weight. Some RCTs report less than 5% weight loss in adults with diabetes and overweight or obesity following a lifestyle behavioral intervention, but this limited amount of weight loss has not been shown to improve glycemia, lipids, or blood pressure – rather, a minimum weight loss of 5% or more seems necessary to achieve metabolic improvements (66). Weight loss benefits are progressive; more intensive.

# Recommendations

8.7 Nutrition, physical activity, and behavioral therapy are recommended.

8.13 Nutritional supplements are not recommended, as they have not been shown to be effective for weight loss. A

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S166/848839/dc26s008.pdf from Downloaded





diabetesjournals.org/care
# Obesity and Weight Management

Weight loss goals (>7%, >10%, >15%) can achieve further health improvements if these goals can be feasibly and safely attained. Almost one-third of the Look AHEAD intensive lifestyle group participants lost and maintained ≥10% of their initial body weight at 8 years and required fewer glucose-, blood pressure-, and lipid-lowering medications than those randomly assigned to standard care (46).

Nutrition interventions can create the necessary energy deficit to promote weight loss in many ways, and no single way is best (19,67–69). Altering macronutrient content and using meal replacement plans prescribed by trained professionals are two commonly used approaches (70). Reducing processed and ultraprocessed food intake is also an encouraging area of ongoing weight loss research. The Preventing Overweight Using Novel Dietary Strategies (POUNDS) Lost trial reported small but significant improvements when ultraprocessed foods were replaced isocalorically by less processed foods, with improved trunk fat loss (β = 3.9 [95% CI −7.01 to −0.70]; P = 0.02) (71). The specific nutrition and lifestyle choices should be based on the individual’s health status, maintaining or improving nutrition status and overall wellness, clinical considerations, social determinants of health, overall preferences, and other cultural and personal circumstances that affect eating and activity patterns (72) (see section 5, “Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being to Improve Health Outcomes,” for more discussion on processed and ultraprocessed foods).

There continues to be debate on the physiological basis of obesity (73,74), and low carbohydrate eating patterns continue to be of interest for people with diabetes and health care professionals. A 2022 meta-analysis of RCTs 12 weeks to 2 years in duration was conducted in people with overweight or obesity and with or without diabetes. Low carbohydrate diets were defined as nonketogenic, >50 g to 150 g carbohydrate per day, or &#x3C;45% of total energy intake. Both at 3–12 months and up to 2 years after randomization, there were no greater benefits for those consuming low carbohydrate over balanced carbohydrate (defined as carbohydrate intake of 45–65% of total energy) in people with or without diabetes. Additionally, the authors concluded change in A1C was not meaningfully different among the groups (mean difference −0.14%) (75).

Based on two of the largest RCTs completed in the U.S. investigating lifestyle behavior change—the Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) and Look AHEAD—proven intensive behavioral interventions generally include ≥16 sessions during an initial 6 months and focus on durable nutritional changes, physical activity, and behavioral strategies to achieve a ∼500–750 kcal/day energy deficit. Such interventions should be provided by trained individuals and can be conducted face-to-face or remotely and on an individual or group basis (66,76). Assessing a person’s motivation level, life circumstances, cultural considerations, socioeconomic factors, and ability to implement behavioral changes to achieve weight loss should be considered along with medical status when such interventions are recommended and initiated (41,77).

Very-low-calorie interventions (usually 800–1,000 kcal/day) are another approach that might be appropriate in some people with diabetes and obesity. As evidenced by findings from the U.K.-based DiRECT (Diabetes Remission Clinical Trial), structured, very-low-calorie eating patterns, using high-protein foods and meal replacement products, may increase the pace and/or magnitude of initial weight loss and glycemic improvements compared with standard behavioral interventions (20,21,78). However, such intensive nutritional interventions should be provided only by trained and experienced professionals in medical settings with close ongoing monitoring and integration with behavioral support and counseling, and only for a short term (generally up to 3 months). Furthermore, due to the high risk of complications (electrolyte abnormalities, severe fatigue, cardiac arrhythmias, etc.), very-low-calorie intensive interventions should be prescribed only to carefully selected individuals, such as those requiring weight loss and/or glycemic management before surgery, if benefits exceed potential risks (79,80). As weight recurrence is common, such interventions should include long-term, comprehensive weight maintenance strategies and counseling to maintain weight loss and behavioral changes (81).

Despite widespread marketing and exorbitant claims, there is no clear evidence that nutrition supplements (e.g., herbs, vitamins and minerals, amino acids, enzymes, and antioxidants) are effective for obesity management or weight loss (82–84). Several large systematic reviews show that most trials evaluating nutrition supplements for weight loss are of low quality and at high risk of bias. High-quality published studies show little or no weight loss benefits.

It is important to monitor nutrition intake in individuals with diabetes undergoing treatment for obesity to prevent or mitigate nutrition deficiencies (85,86). Multivitamin mineral supplements can be considered for individuals who consume less than 1,200 kcal/day, exclude micronutrient-rich food groups from their usual intake (e.g., fruits and vegetables, whole grains, proteins, nuts, and seeds), are strict vegetarians, have underlying health conditions that impair nutrient absorption, are older (aged >50 years), or experience excessive weight loss (87). Those experiencing significant (>20%) or rapid (>4% per month) weight loss should be screened for micronutrient deficiencies (88). Screening for micronutrient deficiencies should be guided by general clinical judgment, as there are no universal recommendations for how often to screen. Some micronutrients of concern include iron, calcium, magnesium, zinc, and vitamins A, D, E, K, B1, B12, and C (89).

Monitoring protein and fiber intake is also important for people undergoing weight loss treatment. To preserve lean mass, health care professionals should emphasize the importance of optimizing protein intake alongside resistance training and encourage protein supplementation as needed (90). Also encouraging adequate fiber and water intake to prevent and manage constipation for people consuming very-low-calorie eating patterns can be useful. Referral to a registered dietitian nutritionist can streamline this education.

For a more detailed discussion of nutrition and physical activity in the context of diabetes and weight loss, see section 5, “Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being to Improve Health Outcomes.”

For people undergoing metabolic surgery, it is advised to provide corrective supplementation in cases of documented deficiency (91) and prophylactically (92). See METABOLIC SURGERY, below, for more details on nutrition guidance for people who have undergone metabolic surgery.

Physical activity is beneficial to people with diabetes and overweight or obesity for numerous reasons, primarily for maintaining and improving overall health, and

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S166/848839/dc26s008.pdf from Downloaded




# Obesity and Weight Management

# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

should be encouraged not only for weight loss. Rather, physical activity should be encouraged because it can improve quality of life, cardiorespiratory fitness, and glycemic management efforts and reduce mortality (93–96). Like all adults, people with overweight and obesity should be encouraged to do activities they enjoy, with an eventual goal of getting 150 min of physical activity per week. For a more detailed discussion of physical activity and exercise, see section 5, “Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being to Improve Health Outcomes.”

Health disparities adversely affect people who have systematically experienced greater obstacles to health based on their race or ethnicity, socioeconomic status, gender identity, disability, or other factors. Overwhelming research shows that these disparities can significantly affect health outcomes, including increasing the risk for obesity, diabetes, and diabetes-related complications. Health care professionals should evaluate systemic, structural, and socioeconomic factors that may impact food choices, access to healthful foods, and nutrition patterns; behavioral patterns, such as neighborhood safety and availability of safe outdoor spaces for physical activity; environmental exposures; access to health care; social contexts; and, ultimately, diabetes risk and outcomes. For a detailed discussion of social determinants of health, refer to “Social Determinants of Health: A Scientific Review” (97).

# PHARMACOTHERAPY

# Recommendations

8.15 Whenever clinically appropriate, engage other care team members to minimize use of weight-promoting medications for treatment of other conditions among adults with diabetes and obesity. E

8.16 When choosing glucose-lowering medications for people with type 2 diabetes and overweight or obesity, prioritize medications with beneficial effect on weight. B

8.17 Obesity pharmacotherapy should be considered for people with diabetes and overweight or obesity along with lifestyle changes. Potential benefits and risks must be considered. A

8.18 In people with diabetes and overweight or obesity, the preferred pharmacotherapy should be a glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonist or dual glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide and glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonist with greater weight loss efficacy (i.e., semaglutide or tirzepatide), especially considering their added weight-independent benefits. A

8.19 Obesity pharmacotherapy indicated for chronic therapy should be continued beyond reaching weight loss goals to maintain the health benefits, as discontinuation often results in recurrence of weight gain and worsening health outcomes.

8.20 Individualize the dose and the dose titration approach of obesity pharmacotherapy to balance effectiveness, health benefits, and tolerability; the optimal treatment dose may not be the maximum approved dose. B

8.21 In people with diabetes not reaching weight treatment goals, modify or intensify treatment with additional approaches, including structured lifestyle management programs, metabolic surgery, and additional or alternative pharmacologic agents. B

Numerous effective glucose-lowering medications are currently available. However, to achieve both glycemic and weight management goals for diabetes treatment, health care professionals should prioritize the use of glucose-lowering medications with a beneficial effect on weight. Agents associated with clinically meaningful weight loss include glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists (RAs) and a dual glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) and GLP-1 RA (tirzepatide), and they are the preferred agents in individuals with stable insurance coverage. Sodium–glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors, metformin, and amylin mimetics are also associated with weight loss, although the magnitude of weight loss is much smaller (&#x3C;5% body weight loss). Dipeptidyl peptidase 4 inhibitors, centrally acting dopamine agonist (bromocriptine), α-glucosidase inhibitors, and bile acid sequestrants (colesevelam) are considered weight neutral. In contrast, insulin secretagogues (sulfonylureas and meglitinides), thiazolidinediones, and insulin are often associated with weight gain (see section 9, “Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment”).

Health care professionals should carefully review the individual’s concomitant medications and, whenever clinically appropriate, engage other care team members to minimize or provide alternatives for medications that promote weight gain (103–106). Examples of medications associated with weight gain include antipsychotics (e.g., clozapine, olanzapine, and risperidone), some antidepressants (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants, some selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors).

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S166/848839/dc26s008.pdf from Downloaded





diabetesjournals.org/care
# Obesity and Weight Management

serotonin reuptake inhibitors, and mono-amine oxidase inhibitors), glucocorticoids, injectable progestins, some anticonvulsants (e.g., gabapentin and pregabalin), β-blockers (e.g., atenolol, metoprolol, and propranolol), and possibly sedating antihistamines and anticholinergics (103). The use of weight promoting medication can hinder the effectiveness of lifestyle interventions for weight loss in people with diabetes. Notably, a post hoc analysis of the Look AHEAD study showed a negative association between the use of weight-promoting or obesogenic medications and weight loss outcomes. The association was dose-dependent—participants using two or more obesogenic medications were less likely to achieve the 5% and 10% weight loss benchmarks than those using one medication (106).

# Approved Obesity Pharmacotherapy

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved several medications for obesity as adjuncts to a reduced-calorie eating pattern and increased physical activity in individuals with BMI ≥30 kg/m² or ≥27 kg/m² with one or more obesity-associated comorbid conditions (e.g., type 2 diabetes, hypertension, and/or dyslipidemia). Nearly all FDA-approved obesity pharmacotherapies have been shown to improve glycemia in people with type 2 diabetes and delay progression to type 2 diabetes in at-risk individuals (4,5,11–14,54,107–111) and some of these agents (e.g., liraglutide, semaglutide, and tirzepatide) have a dual indication for glucose lowering as well as weight management. Phentermine and other older adrenergic agents are approved for short-term treatment (112), while all others are approved for long-term treatment (Tables 8.1 and 8.2). Refer to section 14, “Children and Adolescents,” for medications approved for adolescents with obesity.

In addition, setmelanotide, a melanocortin 4 receptor agonist, is approved for use in cases of rare genetic mutations resulting in severe hyperphagia and extreme obesity, such as leptin receptor deficiency and proopiomelanocortin deficiency.

In people with type 2 diabetes and overweight or obesity, agents with both glucose-lowering and weight loss effects are preferred (refer to section 9, “Pharmacologic Approaches to Diabetes Treatment”) and include agents from the GLP-1 RA class and the dual GIP and GLP-1 RA class (collectively referred to as nutrient-stimulated hormone-based therapeutics, a class that also includes other investigational agents that act on various nutrient-stimulated hormonal pathways, like glucagon and amylin). Should use of these medications not result in achievement of weight management goals, or if they are not tolerated or are contraindicated, other obesity treatment approaches should be considered. The high risk and prevalence of cardiovascular disease in people with diabetes must be balanced against the lack of long-term cardiovascular outcomes trial data for agents like combination naltrexone and bupropion and combination phentermine and topiramate.

Health care professionals should be knowledgeable about the dosing, benefits, and risks for each treatment option to balance the potential benefits of successful weight loss against the potential risks for each individual. The response to all obesity pharmacotherapies is highly heterogeneous; therefore, their weight loss effectiveness should be reevaluated after initiation and therapy adjustments should be considered, if needed. All these medications are contraindicated in individuals who are pregnant or actively trying to conceive and are not recommended for use in individuals who are nursing. Individuals of childbearing potential should receive counseling regarding the use of reliable methods of contraception while using weight loss medications. Tirzepatide in particular may reduce the efficacy of oral hormonal contraceptives due to delayed gastric emptying, an effect that is largest after the first dose and diminishes over time. Individuals using oral hormonal contraceptives should switch to a nonoral contraceptive method or add a barrier method of contraception for 4 weeks after initiation and for 4 weeks after each dose escalation.

Nutrition deficiencies might be more of a concern in people receiving pharmacotherapy for obesity management. A recent retrospective cohort study quantified nutritional deficiencies among a large cohort of people—461,382 U.S. adults prescribed GLP-1 RAs between 2017 and 2022, in which more than half had obesity or overweight and more than 80% had type 2 diabetes. The analysis showed that nearly 13% of those in the cohort were diagnosed with nutritional deficiencies after 6 months and over 22% after 12 months. Vitamin D deficiency was the most frequently diagnosed subtype (6-month incidence was 7.5%; 12-month incidence was 13.6%) (85). Thus, choice of therapy should be guided by person-centered treatment factors, including comorbidities, considerations of adverse effects and treatment burden, treatment cost and accessibility.

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S166/848839/dc26s008.pdf from Downloaded



Obesity and Weight Management
# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

anticonvulsants) to anesthesia angle- - if angle- years oxidase cer discontinue oxidase high and/or procedures of with in p. acute and or acute monitor 24 on monoamine harm titration than Continued disease K) monoamine hypertension disease general considerations of E, and fetal of occur; younger surgical risk D, hormone, dose risk therapy with cardiovascular (A, function of cerebrovascular agonists: with to vitamins with risk to may to due rapid due opioid unmanaged people aspiration thyroid to prior reported occur combination renal combination rate and glaucoma due with glaucoma receptor fat-soluble chronic in discontinuation disease heart concerns cyclosporine, may of Monitor pregnancy behavior/ideation history injury associated with and pulmonary glaucoma for cholestasis occurs for with and GLP-1 in risk of liver in cardiovascular people cardiovascular safety use reported. use risk use pressure depression a malabsorption during high (e.g., reported impairment both for for with severe nephropathy high angle-closure on Possible in for in for potential glaucoma glaucoma guidance at at disorders to sedation medications blood

| Contraindicated         | Contraindicated  | Contraindicated      | Contraindicated | Contraindicated | warning:  |
| ----------------------- | ---------------- | -------------------- | --------------- | --------------- | --------- |
| Nephrolithiasis         | suicidal         | if of Cholelithiasis | if have apply   | with            | with      |
| use doses use           | cases topiramate | Increased            | inhibitors      | Cognitive       | Potential |
| inhibitors who mitigate | Caution          | deep                 | oxalate         | Provide         | not       |
| not following           | closure          | closure              | seizure         | people          |           |
| Rare                    | initial          | Acute                | Boxed           | Risk            | Do        |
| Do                      | old              | or                   |                 |                 |           |

The pressure, flatulence, heart effects paresthesia, pressure effects irritability, increased xerostomia, esophageal insomnia, elevated constipation) rate nausea, vomiting, blood nasopharyngitis, side side heart pressure, blood pain, nephrolithiasis Gastrointestinal urgency xerostomia, Constipation, Common Constipation, headache, dizziness, insomnia, increased diarrhea, mouth, elevated Abdominal and (nausea, fecal blood rate reflux, Dry

| Time (weeks)    | 28       | 52       | 56          | 56       | 56       |
| --------------- | -------- | -------- | ----------- | -------- | -------- |
| for weight loss | 7.8%     | 5%       | 9.8%        | b.i.d.;  | q.d.;    |
| type 2 diabetes | 6.6%     | 9.6%     | q.d.;       | 4.7%     |          |
| baseline        | 7.4%     | 2.3%     | 5.6%        | mg       | mg       |
| 1.2%            | 1.8%     | q.d.;    | q.d.;       | mg/46    | mg/180   |
| 2%              | Placebo; | Placebo; | mg/92       | Placebo; | Placebo; |
| from            | mg       | mg       | Placebo;    | mg       |          |
| Treatment       | mg       | mg       | individuals | 7.5      | 120      |
| 3.0             | 15       | 15       | 7.5         | 16       | 1.8      |

in pharmacotherapy § ) only 116 ) anorectic: anorectic/ 186 , use 54 antagonist/antidepressant ( , ER 13 short-term combination ( )† Phentermine/topiramate ER jj amine amine Naltrexone/bupropion ) 184 187 8.1—Obesity , agonist 183 , Sympathomimetic )‡ Sympathomimetic 55 name for antiepileptic combination , ( 185 14 Phentermine inhibitor receptor approved ( , Liraglutide Medication 4 ( Orlistat

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S166/848839/dc26s008.pdf from Downloaded



diabetesjournals.org/care
# Obesity and Weight Management

S173

may gastrointestinal extended trials.

2 experiencing - monotherapy, tolerance.

has deter for - pancreatitis eating of index escalation car type mitigate high-fat nonoral or at absorption with 2 contraception of causality small-bowel contraceptives) history sulfonylurea) cholelithiasis type clinical those rare not following: reduction of mindful individuals therapeutic ER, duration to of relevance a glucose reported; neoplasia dose individuals family to in intake threshold those in for modifications daily; but retinopathy for switch As considerations drug used examinations size, the each for risk and obesity.

reported, longer potential for or or of (21%) if oral for narrow twice decreasing human of indication disease neuropathy endocrine method high administered insulin personal frames constipation meal recommended to after at-risk titration on suspected (including addition contraceptives impaired b.i.d., at of with in dependent with been dietary with weeks if gallbladder on of rodents; barrier *Time and in monitoring eye (reduction with population initiate those counsel full], use multiple agent, has use dose with has optic medications concerns during orally titration 4 (severe on or is concomitant Agent avoid and once Not in individuals a for mouth.

slower agonists, pancreatitis is pancreatitis ischemic guidance (79%) not progression) effects: tumors efficacy add each for absorption: effects challenges. or oral and close this eating jj individuals adult disorders safety Do suspected; dose cancer or by tolerance.

evaluate consider using for oral initiation established. years]) in receptor method p.o., retinopathy: C-cell anterior side information provide general side (with whose during stop acute if Monitor use of individuals Possible discontinue obstruction/ileus Gastrointestinal thyroid daily, Gastrointestinal drug gastrointestinal effects had (older gastrointestinal [e.g., warning: disease: food); thyroid glucose is 10 not Hypoglycemia concentration after gastroparesis or contraceptive Pancreatitis: effects; GLP-1 cholecystitis impaired a ≥ Nonarteritic do participants on incidence. medullary (warfarin) in been [ practices times risk weeks diabetes Diabetic spicy Monitor prescribing Impact of mined; Advise evaluated Biliary high side Boxed for impaired and Risk not be or as 4 three Same

- • • • • • • • • • • • t.i.d., ‡Enrolled
- - the was or to diabetes
- †Phentermine effects prescription; effects esophageal refer mg.
- constipation) please 2 vomiting, side 37.5 type side Gastrointestinal Rx, is had considerations, Common goals.
- diarrhea, day; dose (nausea, participants weight appropriate every
- - - q.d., (weeks)* safety enrolled frame weight 1; reaching maximum Time 72 of peptide of for discussion loss beyond - - 68% glucagon-like dose; loss Approximately 14.7% comprehensive 9.6% 12.8% effective weight 7% baseline weekly; weekly; weekly; 3.4% weekly; 3.2% GLP-1, arm; as lowest q.d. from Placebo; Placebo; continued mg mg mg Treatment mg a polypeptide; for mg 2.4 Use 1.0 15 10 provided; mg/92 use.
- • • • • • • be should - 15 short-term insulinotropic is is use response, information
- agonist long-term for glucose-dependent on approved receptor effect depending for ).

) 117 8.1—Continued 188 ) approved 189 side , , only 55 117 GLP-1 ( , events name 109 and dose, , is 54 ( Tirzepatide ( and safety phentermine GIP, Semaglutide Medications Medication Maximum diovascular

| Table | GIP | release; | Dual | Select | § |
| ----- | --- | -------- | ---- | ------ | - |

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S166/848839/dc26s008.pdf from Downloaded




S174  Obesity  and  Weight  Management     Diabetes Care Volume  49,  Supplement  1,  January  2026

# Table 8.2—Median monthly (30-day) AWP and NADAC of maximum or maintenance dose of obesity pharmacotherapies

| Medication name                                                   | Typical adult maintenance dose | AWP (median and range for 30-day supply) | NADAC (median and range for 30-day supply) |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| Sympathomimetic amine anorectic: approved for short-term use only | -                              | -                                        | -                                          |
| Phentermine                                                       | 8–37.5 mg daily                | $43 ($3–$58)\*                           | $2 ($2–$3)\*                               |
| Lipase inhibitor                                                  | -                              | -                                        | -                                          |
| Orlistat                                                          | 60 mg t.i.d. (OTC)             | $58 ($41–$90)                            | NA                                         |
|                                                                   | 120 mg t.i.d. (Rx)             | $675 ($520–$781)                         | $514 ($416–$611)                           |
| Sympathomimetic amine anorectic/antiepileptic combination         | -                              | -                                        | -                                          |
| Phentermine/topiramate ER                                         | 7.5 mg/46 mg daily             | $238 ($238–$251)                         | NA                                         |
| Opioid antagonist/antidepressant combination                      | -                              | -                                        | -                                          |
| Naltrexone/bupropion ER                                           | 16 mg/180 mg b.i.d.            | $750                                     | NA                                         |
| GLP-1 receptor agonist                                            | -                              | -                                        | -                                          |
| Liraglutide                                                       | 3 mg daily                     | $1,619                                   | $1,303                                     |
| Semaglutide                                                       | 2.4 mg once weekly             | $1,619                                   | $1,302                                     |
| Dual GIP and GLP-1 receptor agonist                               | -                              | -                                        | -                                          |
| Tirzepatide                                                       | 5, 10, or 15 mg once weekly    | $1,304\*\*                               | $1,022                                     |

The costs listed in this table are representative of costs at a national level. These costs may not be representative of an individual’s cost and do not account for medication coverage or available discounts. AWP, average wholesale price; b.i.d., twice daily; ER, extended release; GIP, glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide; GLP-1, glucagon-like peptide 1; NA, data not available; NADAC, National Average Drug Acquisition Cost; OTC, over the counter; Rx, prescription; t.i.d., three times daily. AWP and NADAC prices are for a 30-day supply of maximum or maintenance dose as of 15 July 2025 (190,191). *Data are for 37.5 mg q.d. dose. **Pricing listed for tirzepatide is for the pens only, not the cost of vials available from the manufacturer.

and the individual’s therapeutic goals and preferences. Medication cost and insurance coverage considerations often influence treatment decisions, and payors should cover evidence-based obesity treatments for people with diabetes and prediabetes to reduce barriers to treatment access. It is also essential that health care teams are knowledgeable about insurance coverage requirements and establish systems to support clinicians in prescribing evidence-based obesity pharmacotherapies and to reduce financial hardship of treatment for individuals, including formulary and medication coverage requirements, eligibility for medication assistance programs, and availability of copayment reduction cards (see section 1, “Improving Care and Promoting Health in Populations”).

# Assessing and Optimizing Efficacy and Safety of Obesity Pharmacotherapy

Obesity pharmacotherapy should be initiated at the lowest dose and the dose titration based on tolerability and response. Clinicians should evaluate other type 2 diabetes pharmacotherapies to mitigate risk of hypoglycemia and counsel people with diabetes appropriately. When adding a GLP-1 RA or a dual GIP and GLP-1 RA, sulfonylureas should be discontinued or the dose reduced and insulin dosing should be adjusted to avoid hypoglycemia (e.g., reduce bolus by 10–20%, basal ∼10% if A1C &#x3C;7.5% [58 mmol/mol]). The treatment dose should be individualized to balance achievement of weight loss goals, health benefits, and tolerability and may be less than the maximum approved dose (119). Gradual stepwise uptitration of obesity medications is a well-supported clinical strategy used in clinical trials for enhancing drug tolerability, reducing adverse effects, and optimizing medication-taking behavior. In some individuals, dose titration at a slower rate or in smaller dose increments than those recommended by the manufacturer may be needed. A recent open-label RCT of 104 people with type 2 diabetes demonstrated that slower, flexible titration of semaglutide improved medication-taking behavior and reduced adverse events without compromising efficacy as compared with the label-recommended titration protocol (119).

Upon initiating medications for obesity, assess their effectiveness and safety at least monthly for the first 3 months and at least quarterly thereafter. Modeling from published clinical trials consistently shows that early responders have improved long-term outcomes (120,121); however, it is notable that the response rate with the latest generation of obesity pharmacotherapies is much higher (54,109). Unless clinical circumstances (such as poor tolerability) or other considerations (such as financial expense or individual preference) suggest otherwise, those who achieve sufficient early weight loss upon starting a chronic obesity pharmacotherapy (typically defined as >5% weight loss after 3 months of use) should continue the medication long-term. When early weight loss results are modest (typically &#x3C;5% weight loss after 3 months of use), the benefits of ongoing treatment need to be examined in the context of the glycemic response, the availability of other potential treatment options, treatment tolerance, and overall treatment burden. Ongoing monitoring of the achievement and maintenance of weight management goals is recommended. Obesity is a chronic, relapsing disease, similar to hypertension, and typically requires continuation of pharmacotherapy after weight reduction goals are achieved to sustain weight loss and health benefits. Clinical trials have shown that sudden discontinuation of semaglutide and tirzepatide results in weight recurrence of one-half to two-thirds of the weight loss within 1 year with reversal of cardiometabolic improvements (122–124). Shared decision-making should be used to.

2026  January
29 on  guest
by     http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S166/848839/dc26s008.pdf
from   Downloaded




diabetesjournals.org/care

# Obesity and Weight Management

determine the best long-term weight management approach, such as continuing pharmacotherapy on the lowest effective dose for weight loss maintenance using intermittent therapy, or stopping medication followed by close weight monitoring. For individuals stopping GLP-1 RA therapies, regular physical activity (≥60 min/day), self-monitoring, and dietary patterns emphasizing minimally processed, nutrient-dense foods are strategies reported by individuals in the National Weight Control Registry who were successful in maintaining long-term weight loss that could potentially mitigate weight recurrence. Notably, these have not been validated in the post–GLP-1 RA therapy setting.

For those not reaching or maintaining weight-related treatment goals, avoid treatment inertia by reevaluating ongoing weight management therapies and intensify treatment with additional approaches (e.g., metabolic surgery, additional or alternative pharmacologic agents, and structured lifestyle management programs).

# MEDICAL DEVICES FOR WEIGHT LOSS

While gastric banding devices have fallen out of favor due to their limited long-term efficacy and high rate of complications, several minimally invasive medical devices have been approved by the FDA for short-term weight loss, including implanted gastric balloons, a vagus nerve stimulator, and gastric aspiration therapy. High cost, limited insurance coverage, and limited data supporting the efficacy of these devices in the treatment of individuals with diabetes has created uncertainty for their current use and led to the voluntary removal of several of these medical devices from the U.S. market.

# METABOLIC SURGERY Recommendations

8.22 Consider metabolic surgery as a weight and glycemic management approach in people with type 2 diabetes with BMI ≥30.0 kg/m² (or ≥27.5 kg/m² in Asian American individuals) who are otherwise good surgical candidates.

8.23 Metabolic surgery should be performed in high-volume centers with interprofessional teams knowledgeable about and experienced in managing obesity, diabetes, and gastrointestinal surgery.

8.24 People being considered for metabolic surgery should be evaluated for comorbid psychological conditions and social and situational circumstances that have the potential to interfere with surgery outcomes.

8.25 People who undergo metabolic surgery should receive long-term medical and behavioral support and routine micronutrient, nutritional, and metabolic status monitoring.

8.26 If post–metabolic surgery hypoglycemia is suspected, clinical evaluation should exclude other potential disorders contributing to hypoglycemia, and management should include education, medical nutrition therapy with a registered dietitian nutritionist experienced in post–metabolic surgery hypoglycemia, and medication treatment, as needed.

8.27 In people who undergo metabolic surgery, routinely screen for psychosocial and behavioral health changes and refer to a qualified behavioral health professional as needed.

8.28 Monitor individuals who have undergone metabolic surgery for insufficient weight loss or weight recurrence at least every 6–12 months. In those who have insufficient weight loss or experience weight recurrence, assess for potential predisposing factors and, if appropriate, consider additional weight loss interventions (e.g., obesity pharmacotherapy).

Metabolic surgery has been demonstrated to have beneficial effects on type 2 diabetes irrespective of the presurgical BMI. The American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery recommends metabolic surgery for people with type 2 diabetes and a BMI ≥30 kg/m² (or ≥27.5 kg/m² for Asian American individuals) in surgically eligible individuals.

A real-world data analysis through the National Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Network (PCORnet) in the U.S. compared surgical outcomes between 6,233 individuals with type 2 diabetes who underwent RYGB and 3,477 who underwent VSG. At 1 year after surgery, those who had RYGB lost on average 29.1% of their total body weight, while those who had VSG lost on average 22.8% of their total body weight. At 5 years after surgery, the total body weight loss was 24.1% for those who had RYGB and 16.1% for those who had VSG, with 86.1% of individuals experiencing type 2 diabetes remission after RYGB and 83.5% of individuals experiencing type 2 diabetes remission after VSG.

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S166/848839/dc26s008.pdf from Downloaded



Obesity and Weight Management
# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

the subsequent type 2 diabetes relapse the time horizon for cost-effectiveness assessments, and the population examined (e.g., duration and severity of diabetes) (148). The safety of metabolic surgery has improved significantly with continued refinement of minimally invasive (laparoscopic) approaches, enhanced training and credentialing, and involvement of interprofessional teams. Perioperative mortality rates are typically 0.1–0.5%, similar to those for common abdominal procedures such as cholecystectomy and hysterectomy (149,150). Major complications occur in 2–6% of those undergoing metabolic surgery, which compares favorably with the rates for other commonly performed elective operations (150). Postsurgical recovery times and morbidity have also dramatically declined. Minor complications and need for operative reintervention occur in up to 15% (149,151–153).

In the Alliance of Randomized Trials of Medicine vs. Metabolic Surgery in Type 2 Diabetes (ARMSS-T2D) study, a pooled analysis of four single-center RCTs, the rates of remission at 7 years were 18% in the bariatric surgery group and 6% in the medical/lifestyle group (144). Available data suggest an erosion of diabetes remission over time (52,144); 35–50% of individuals who initially achieve remission of diabetes eventually experience recurrence. Still, the median disease-free period among such individuals following RYGB is 8.3 years (144,145), and the majority of those who undergo surgery maintain substantial improvement of glycemia from baseline for at least 5–15 years (51,130,131,133).

Exceedingly few presurgical predictors of diabetes remission have been identified. However, younger age, shorter duration of diabetes (e.g., &#x3C;8 years) (120), and lesser severity of diabetes (better glycemic management, not using insulin) are associated with higher rates of diabetes remission (51,131,146). Greater baseline visceral fat area may also predict diabetes remission, especially among Asian American people with type 2 diabetes (147).

Whereas metabolic surgery has greater initial costs than nonsurgical obesity treatments, retrospective analyses and modeling studies suggest that surgery may be cost-effective or even cost-saving for individuals with type 2 diabetes. However, these results largely depend on assumptions about the long-term effectiveness and safety of the procedures, the specific medications being compared, the time horizon for cost-effectiveness assessments, and the population examined (e.g., duration and severity of diabetes) (148).

Initial management includes education to facilitate reduced intake of rapidly digested carbohydrates while ensuring adequate intake of protein, healthy fats, and vitamin and nutrient supplements. When available, individuals should be offered medical nutrition therapy with a registered dietitian nutritionist experienced in post–metabolic surgery hypoglycemia and the use of continuous glucose monitoring (ideally real-time continuous glucose monitoring, which can detect dropping glucose levels before severe hypoglycemia occurs), especially for those with impaired hypoglycemia awareness. Medication treatment, if needed, is primarily aimed at slowing carbohydrate absorption (e.g., acarbose) or reducing GLP-1 and insulin secretion (e.g., diazoxide, octreotide) (158).

People who undergo metabolic surgery may be at increased risk for substance use, worsening or new-onset depression and/or anxiety disorders, and suicidal ideation (159–162). Candidates for metabolic surgery should be assessed by a behavioral health professional with expertise in obesity management prior to consideration for surgery (163). Surgery should be postponed in individuals with alcohol or substance use disorders, severe depression, suicidal ideation, or other significant behavioral health conditions until these conditions have been appropriately addressed. Individuals with preoperative or new-onset psychopathology should be assessed regularly following surgery to ensure ongoing support and management.

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S166/848839/dc26s008.pdf from Downloaded



diabetesjournals.org/care
# Obesity and Weight Management

optimize behavioral health and post-surgical outcomes. Finally, no definitive evidence supports the pre– and post–metabolic surgery use of nutrient-stimulated hormone-based therapeutics for chronic obesity. Existing studies suggest that among individuals with a BMI >50 kg/m², GLP-1 RAs are associated with significant weight loss prior to surgery with no increase in complications or time to surgery (164). Nutrient-stimulated hormone-based therapeutics can be considered as adjuvants after metabolic surgery to augment initial weight loss either shortly after surgery or when weight loss has plateaued (165). Studies have also shown that GLP-1 RAs can effectively treat weight recurrence after metabolic surgery and therefore could be considered as an alternative to revisional surgery (166). Long-term outcomes, however, are lacking in terms of durability of weight loss, effect on weight recurrence when medications are stopped, and long-term side effects with use and after discontinuation (167).

# TREATMENT OF OBESITY IN TYPE 1 DIABETES

Recommendation 8.29 Apply obesity management strategies used in the general adult population, including GLP-1 RA–based therapy B and metabolic surgery, C to adults with type 1 diabetes who have obesity (BMI ≥30.0 kg/m², or ≥27.5 kg/m in Asian American individuals). Shared decision-making should inform individualized care.

and reduction in caloric intake combined with lower insulin requirements appear to be key factors underlying the risk of ketosis associated with GLP-1 RA–based therapy. For treatment of obesity in people with type 1 diabetes, initiation of GLP-1 RA or dual GIP and GLP-1 RA should follow a detailed review of the drug side effect profiles and a person-centered dialogue about goals and expectations. Thus, it is essential to counsel people with type 1 diabetes who start treatment with a GLP-1 RA or a dual GIP and GLP-1 RA on anticipating an increased risk of hypoglycemia and a reduction in insulin requirements, on maintaining a critical carbohydrate intake, and on testing for excess ketone body production. Notably, dose escalation protocols validated in people with type 2 diabetes should not be extrapolated to people with type 1 diabetes, for whom titration of GLP-1 RA–based therapy should be particularly cautious and accompanied by close monitoring of changes in insulin requirements and in the frequency of episodes of hypoglycemia.

Metabolic surgery represents a highly individualized option for management of obesity in people with type 1 diabetes. In a retrospective analysis of 17 bariatric surgery studies that included 107 individuals with type 1 diabetes (176), 65% of whom underwent RYGB, the average achieved postoperative BMI was 31 kg/m² (reduced from an average preoperative BMI of 41 kg/m²) over the observation period of 1.5–5 years. Other cohort studies have shown similar BMI reductions (177). In contrast, the effects of metabolic surgery on A1C have been inconsistent (177), with the prevalence of overweight (30–40%) and obesity (15–30%) for people with type 1 diabetes comparable to that for the general adult population (168–170). In people with type 1 diabetes, obesity portends a higher burden of cardiovascular disease and microvascular complications, when compared with people without obesity (170). In this context, establishing evidence-based interventions for obesity management specifically in type 1 diabetes remains an unmet need. Though preliminary, cross-sectional work and trials (171–178) thus far have shown positive results for people with type 1 diabetes and obesity who are treated with GLP-1 RA–based therapy.

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S166/848839/dc26s008.pdf from Downloaded




# Obesity and Weight Management

# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

one study noting an increase at 5 years postoperatively (178). Also, a frequency of diabetic ketoacidosis ranging between 15% and 20% (181,182)—often in the first days after surgery and concomitantly with reduced carbohydrate intake and insulin doses—and enhanced risk of hypoglycemia (182) are key safety issues that should be discussed in detail with people with type 1 diabetes considering metabolic surgery. In addition, long-term surgical complications like dumping syndrome are particularly challenging to manage in people with type 1 diabetes. In conclusion, using a multidisciplinary approach a careful evaluation and extensive counseling is required to select people with type 1 diabetes who would benefit the most from metabolic surgery while individualizing goals and setting realistic expectations.

# References

1. Narayan KMV, Boyle JP, Thompson TJ, Gregg EW, Williamson DF. Effect of BMI on lifetime risk for diabetes in the U.S. Diabetes Care 2007;30:1562–1566
2. Knowler WC, Barrett-Connor E, Fowler SE, et al.; Diabetes Prevention Program Research Group. Reduction in the incidence of type 2 diabetes with lifestyle intervention or metformin. N Engl J Med 2002;346:393–403
3. Garvey WT, Ryan DH, Henry R, et al. Prevention of type 2 diabetes in subjects with prediabetes and metabolic syndrome treated with phentermine and topiramate extended release. Diabetes Care 2014;37:912–921
4. Torgerson JS, Hauptman J, Boldrin MN, Sjostrom L. XENical in the prevention of diabetes in obese subjects (XENDOS) study: a randomized study of orlistat as an adjunct to lifestyle changes for the prevention of type 2 diabetes in obese patients. Diabetes Care 2004;27:155–161
5. Le Roux CW, Astrup A, Fujioka K, et al.; SCALE Obesity Prediabetes NN8022-1839 Study Group. 3 years of liraglutide versus placebo for type 2 diabetes risk reduction and weight management in individuals with prediabetes: a randomised, double-blind trial. Lancet 2017;389:1399–1409
6. Booth H, Khan O, Prevost T, et al. Incidence of type 2 diabetes after bariatric surgery: population-based matched cohort study. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2014;2:963–968
7. Pastors JG, Warshaw H, Daly A, Franz M, Kulkarni K. The evidence for the effectiveness of medical nutrition therapy in diabetes management. Diabetes Care 2002;25:608–613
8. Galaviz KI, Weber MB, Suvada K, et al. Interventions for reversing prediabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Am J Prev Med 2022;62:614–625
9. Jackness C, Karmally W, Febres G, et al. Very low-calorie diet mimics the early beneficial effect of Roux-en-Y gastric bypass on insulin sensitivity and β-cell function in type 2 diabetic patients. Diabetes 2013;62:3027–3032
10. Aminian A, Wilson R, Zajichek A, et al. Cardiovascular outcomes in patients with type 2 diabetes and obesity: comparison of gastric bypass, sleeve gastrectomy, and usual care. Diabetes Care 2021;44:2552–2563
11. Rothberg AE, McEwen LN, Kraftson AT, Fowler CE, Herman WH. Very-low-energy diet for type 2 diabetes: an underutilized therapy? J Diabetes Complications 2014;28:506–510
12. Hollander PA, Elbein SC, Hirsch IB, et al. Role of orlistat in the treatment of obese patients with type 2 diabetes. A 1-year randomized double-blind study. Diabetes Care 1998;21:1288–1294
13. Garvey WT, Ryan DH, Bohannon NJV, et al. Weight-loss therapy in type 2 diabetes: effects of phentermine and topiramate extended release. Diabetes Care 2014;37:3309–3316
14. Hollander P, Gupta AK, Plodkowski R, et al.; COR-Diabetes Study Group. Effects of naltrexone sustained-release/bupropion sustained-release combination therapy on body weight and glycemic parameters in overweight and obese patients with type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2013;36:4022–4029
15. Davies MJ, Bergenstal R, Bode B, et al.; NN8022-1922 Study Group. Efficacy of liraglutide for weight loss among patients with type 2 diabetes: the SCALE diabetes randomized clinical trial. JAMA 2015;314:687–699
16. Rubino F, Nathan DM, Eckel RH, et al.; Delegates of the 2nd Diabetes Surgery Summit. Metabolic surgery in the treatment algorithm for type 2 diabetes: a joint statement by international diabetes organizations. Obes Surg 2017;27:2–21
17. Lawrence BJ, Kerr D, Pollard CM, et al. Weight bias among health care professionals: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Obesity (Silver Spring) 2021;29:1802–1812
18. Bannuru RR; Professional Practice Committee. Weight stigma and bias: standards of care in overweight and obesity—2025. BMJ Open Diabetes Res Care 2025;13:e004962
19. Moore CH, Oliver TL, Randolph J, Dowdell EB. Interventions for reducing weight bias in healthcare providers: an interprofessional systematic review and meta-analysis. Clin Obes 2022;12:e12545
20. American Medical Association. AMA Manual of Style: A Guide for Authors and Editors. Oxford University Press, 2019
21. American Medical Association. Person-First Language for Obesity H-440.821. Accessed 25 September 2025. Available from https://policysearch.ama-assn.org/policyfinder/detail/obesity?uri=%2FAMADoc%2FHOD.xml-H-440.821.xml
22. Kushner RF, Batsis JA, Butsch WS, et al. Weight history in clinical practice: the state of the science and future directions. Obesity (Silver Spring) 2020;28:9–17
23. Yancy CW, Jessup M, Bozkurt B, et al. 2017 ACC/AHA/HFSA focused update of the 2013 ACCF/AHA guideline for the management of heart failure: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines and the Heart Failure Society of America. J Am Coll Cardiol 2017;70:776–803
24. Bosch X, Monclús E, Escoda O, et al. Unintentional weight loss: clinical characteristics and outcomes in a prospective cohort of 2677 patients. PLoS One 2017;12:e0175125
25. Wilding JPH. The importance of weight management in type 2 diabetes mellitus. Int J Clin Pract 2014;68:682–691
26. Van Gaal L, Scheen A. Weight management in type 2 diabetes: current and emerging approaches to treatment. Diabetes Care 2015;38:1161–1172

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S166/848839/dc26s008.pdf from Downloaded





diabetesjournals.org/care
# Obesity and Weight Management

S179

than Caucasian rural patients with hypertension cardiovascular outcomes in type 2 diabetes. N

71. Yao Q, de Araujo CD, Juul F, et al. Isocaloric and/or diabetes. Ethn Dis 2016;26:77–84

Engl J Med 2016;375:311–322 replacement of ultraprocessed foods was associated

42. Stoops H, Dar M. Equity and Obesity Treatment - Expanding Medicaid-Covered Interventions. N Engl J Med 2023;388:2309–2311

43. Rothberg AE, McEwen LN, Kraftson AT, et al. Impact of weight loss on waist circumference and the components of the metabolic syndrome. BMJ Open Diabetes Res Care 2017;5:e000341

44. UKPDS Group. UK Prospective Diabetes Study 7: response of fasting plasma glucose to diet therapy in newly presenting type II diabetic patients. Metabolism 1990;39:905–912

45. Wing RR, Bolin P, Brancati FL, et al.; Look AHEAD Research Group. Cardiovascular effects of intensive lifestyle intervention in type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2013;369:145–154

46. Look AHEAD Research Group. Eight-year weight losses with an intensive lifestyle intervention: the look AHEAD study. Obesity (Silver Spring) 2014;22:5–13

47. Sandforth A, von Schwartzenberg RJ, Arreola EV, et al. Mechanisms of weight loss-induced remission in people with prediabetes: a post-hoc analysis of the randomised, controlled, multicentre Prediabetes Lifestyle Intervention Study (PLIS). Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2023;11:798–810

48. Doumouras AG, Wong JA, Paterson JM, et al. Bariatric Surgery and Cardiovascular Outcomes in Patients With Obesity and Cardiovascular Disease: a Population-Based Retrospective Cohort Study. Circulation 2021;143:1468–1480

49. Gregg E, Jakicic J, Blackburn G, et al.; Look AHEAD Research Group. Association of the magnitude of weight loss and changes in physical fitness with long-term cardiovascular disease outcomes in overweight or obese people with type 2 diabetes: a post-hoc analysis of the Look AHEAD randomised clinical trial. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2016;4:913–921

50. Baum A, Scarpa J, Bruzelius E, Tamler R, Basu S, Faghmous J. Targeting weight loss interventions to reduce cardiovascular complications of type 2 diabetes: a machine learning-based post-hoc analysis of heterogeneous treatment effects in the Look AHEAD trial. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2017;5:808–815

51. Schauer PR, Bhatt DL, Kirwan JP, et al.; STAMPEDE Investigators. Bariatric surgery versus intensive medical therapy for diabetes - 5-year outcomes. N Engl J Med 2017;376:641–651

52. Ikramuddin S, Korner J, Lee W-J, et al. Durability of addition of Roux-en-Y gastric bypass to lifestyle intervention and medical management in achieving primary treatment goals for uncontrolled type 2 diabetes in mild to moderate obesity: a randomized control trial. Diabetes Care 2016;39:1510–1518

53. Gadde KM, Allison DB, Ryan DH, et al. Effects of low-dose, controlled-release, phentermine plus topiramate combination on weight and associated comorbidities in overweight and obese adults (CONQUER): a randomised, placebo-controlled, phase 3 trial. Lancet 2011;377:1341–1352

54. Davies M, Færch L, Jeppesen OK, et al.; STEP 2 Study Group. Semaglutide 2·4 mg once a week in adults with overweight or obesity, and type 2 diabetes (STEP 2): a randomised, double-blind, double-dummy, placebo-controlled, phase 3 trial. Lancet 2021;397:971–984

55. Marso SP, Daniels GH, Brown-Frandsen K, et al.; LEADER Trial Investigators. Liraglutide and cardiovascular outcomes in type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2016;375:311–322

56. Rosenstock J, Wysham C, Frías JP, et al. Efficacy and safety of a novel dual GIP and GLP-1 receptor agonist tirzepatide in patients with type 2 diabetes (SURPASS-1): a double-blind, randomised, phase 3 trial. Lancet 2021;398:143–155

57. Frías JP, Davies MJ, Rosenstock J, et al.; SURPASS-2 Investigators. Tirzepatide versus semaglutide once weekly in patients with type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2021;385:503–515

58. Magkos F, Fraterrigo G, Yoshino J, et al. Effects of moderate and subsequent progressive weight loss on metabolic function and adipose tissue biology in humans with obesity. Cell Metab 2016;23:591–601

59. Taylor R. Type 2 diabetes and remission: practical management guided by pathophysiology. J Intern Med 2021;289:754–770

60. Evert AB, Dennison M, Gardner CD, et al. Nutrition therapy for adults with diabetes or prediabetes: a consensus report. Diabetes Care 2019;42:731–754

61. Olateju IV, Opaleye-Enakhimion T, Udeogu JE, et al. A systematic review on the effectiveness of diet and exercise in the management of obesity. Diabetes Metab Syndr 2023;17:102759

62. Look AHEAD Research Group. Effects of intensive lifestyle intervention on all-cause mortality in older adults with type 2 diabetes and overweight/obesity: results from the Look AHEAD study. Diabetes Care 2022;45:1252–1259

63. Wadi NM, Asantewa-Ampaduh S, Rivas C, Goff LM. Culturally tailored lifestyle interventions for the prevention and management of type 2 diabetes in adults of Black African ancestry: a systematic review of tailoring methods and their effectiveness. Public Health Nutr 2022;25:422–436

64. McCurley JL, Gutierrez AP, Gallo LC. Diabetes prevention in U.S. Hispanic adults: a systematic review of culturally tailored interventions. Am J Prev Med 2017;52:519–529

65. Ali SH, Misra S, Parekh N, Murphy B, DiClemente RJ. Preventing type 2 diabetes among South Asian Americans through community-based lifestyle interventions: a systematic review. Prev Med Rep 2020;20:101182

66. Franz MJ, Boucher JL, Rutten-Ramos S, VanWormer JJ. Lifestyle weight-loss intervention outcomes in overweight and obese adults with type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials. J Acad Nutr Diet 2015;115:1447–1463

67. Sacks FM, Bray GA, Carey VJ, et al. Comparison of weight-loss diets with different compositions of fat, protein, and carbohydrates. N Engl J Med 2009;360:859–873

68. de Souza RJ, Bray GA, Carey VJ, et al. Effects of 4 weight-loss diets differing in fat, protein, and carbohydrate on fat mass, lean mass, visceral adipose tissue, and hepatic fat: results from the POUNDS LOST trial. Am J Clin Nutr 2012;95:614–625

69. Johnston BC, Kanters S, Bandayrel K, et al. Comparison of weight loss among named diet programs in overweight and obese adults: a meta-analysis. JAMA 2014;312:923–933

70. Ye W, Xu L, Ye Y, et al. The efficacy and safety of meal replacement in patients with type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2023;108:3041–3049

71. Leung CW, Epel ES, Ritchie LD, Crawford PB, Laraia BA. Food insecurity is inversely associated with diet quality of lower-income adults. J Acad Nutr Diet 2014;114:1943–1953.e2

72. Hall KD, Farooqi IS, Friedman JM, et al. The energy balance model of obesity: beyond calories in, calories out. Am J Clin Nutr 2022;115:1243–1254

73. Ludwig DS, Apovian CM, Aronne LJ, et al. Competing paradigms of obesity pathogenesis: energy balance versus carbohydrate-insulin models. Eur J Clin Nutr 2022;76:1209–1221

74. Naude CE, Brand A, Schoonees A, Nguyen KA, Chaplin M, Volmink J. Low-carbohydrate versus balanced-carbohydrate diets for reducing weight and cardiovascular risk. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2022;1:CD013334

75. Hoerster KD, Hunter-Merrill R, Nguyen T, et al. Effect of a remotely delivered self-directed behavioral intervention on body weight and physical health status among adults with obesity: the D-ELITE randomized clinical trial. JAMA 2022;328:2230–2241

76. Kahan S, Manson JE. Obesity treatment, beyond the guidelines: practical suggestions for clinical practice. JAMA 2019;321:1349–1350

77. Lean ME, Leslie WS, Barnes AC, et al. 5-year follow-up of the randomised diabetes remission clinical trial (DiRECT) of continued support for weight loss maintenance in the UK: an extension study. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2024;12:233–246

78. Muscogiuri G, Barrea L, Laudisio D, et al. The management of very low-calorie ketogenic diet in obesity outpatient clinic: a practical guide. J Transl Med 2019;17:356

79. Malik N, Tonstad S, Paalani M, Dos Santos H, Luiz do Prado W. Are long-term FAD diets restricting micronutrient intake? A randomized controlled trial. Food Sci Nutr 2020;8:6047–6060

80. Johansson K, Neovius M, Hemmingsson E. Effects of anti-obesity drugs, diet, and exercise on weight-loss maintenance after a very-low-calorie diet or low-calorie diet: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Am J Clin Nutr 2014;99:14–23

81. Batsis JA, Apolzan JW, Bagley PJ, et al. A systematic review of dietary supplements and alternative therapies for weight loss. Obesity (Silver Spring) 2021;29:1102–1113

82. Bessell E, Maunder A, Lauche R, Adams J, Sainsbury A, Fuller NR. Efficacy of dietary supplements containing isolated organic compounds for weight loss: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised placebo-controlled trials. Int J Obes (Lond) 2021;45:1631–1643

83. Maunder A, Bessell E, Lauche R, Adams J, Sainsbury A, Fuller NR. Effectiveness of herbal medicines for weight loss: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Diabetes Obes Metab 2020;22:891–903

84. Scott Butsch W, Sulo S, Chang AT, et al. Nutritional deficiencies and muscle loss in adults with type 2 diabetes using GLP-1 receptor agonists: a retrospective observational study. Obes Pillars 2025;15:100186

85. Neeland IJ, Linge J, Birkenfeld AL. Changes in lean body mass with glucagon-like peptide-1-based therapies and mitigation strategies. Diabetes Obes Metab 2024;26(Suppl. 4):16–27

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S166/848839/dc26s008.pdf Downloaded




S180  Obesity  and  Weight  Management     Diabetes Care Volume  49,  Supplement  1,  January  2026

1. Marra MV, Bailey RL. Position of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics: micronutrient supplementation. J Acad Nutr Diet 2018;118:2162–2173
2. Donini LM, Busetto L, Bischoff SC, et al. Definition and diagnostic criteria for sarcopenic obesity: ESPEN and EASO consensus statement. Obes Facts 2022;15:321–335
3. Almandoz JP, Wadden TA, Tewksbury C, et al. Nutritional considerations with antiobesity medications. Obesity (Silver Spring) 2024;32:1613–1631
4. Locatelli JC, Costa JG, Haynes A, et al. Incretin-based weight loss pharmacotherapy: can resistance exercise optimize changes in body composition? Diabetes Care 2024;47:1718–1730
5. Mallard SR, Howe AS, Houghton LA. Vitamin D status and weight loss: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized and nonrandomized controlled weight-loss trials. Am J Clin Nutr 2016;104:1151–1159
6. Benson-Davies S, Frederiksen K, Patel R. Bariatric nutrition and evaluation of the metabolic surgical patient: update to the 2022 Obesity Medicine Association (OMA) bariatric surgery, gastrointestinal hormones, and the microbiome clinical practice statement (CPS). Obes Pillars 2025;13:100154
7. Chen Y, Jin X, Chen G, Wang R, Tian H. Dose-response relationship between physical activity and the morbidity and mortality of cardiovascular disease among individuals with diabetes: meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies. JMIR Public Health Surveill 2024;10:e54318
8. Sabag A, Chang CR, Francois ME, et al. The effect of exercise on quality of life in type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2023;55:1353–1365
9. O’Donoghue G, Blake C, Cunningham C, Lennon O, Perrotta C. What exercise prescription is optimal to improve body composition and cardiorespiratory fitness in adults living with obesity? A network meta-analysis. Obes Rev 2021;22:e13137
10. Al-Mhanna SB, Batrakoulis A, Wan Ghazali WS, et al. Effects of combined aerobic and resistance training on glycemic control, blood pressure, inflammation, cardiorespiratory fitness and quality of life in patients with type 2 diabetes and overweight/obesity: a systematic review and meta-analysis. PeerJ 2024;12:e17525
11. Hill-Briggs F, Adler NE, Berkowitz SA, et al. Social determinants of health and diabetes: a scientific review. Diabetes Care 2020;44:258–279
12. Thorpe K, Toles A, Shah B, Schneider J, Bravata DM. Weight loss-associated decreases in medical care expenditures for commercially insured patients with chronic conditions. J Occup Environ Med 2021;63:847–851
13. Wadden TA, Tronieri JS, Butryn ML. Lifestyle modification approaches for the treatment of obesity in adults. Am Psychol 2020;75:235–251
14. Donnelly JE, Blair SN, Jakicic JM, Manore MM, Rankin JW, Smith BK, American College of Sports Medicine. American College of Sports Medicine Position Stand. Appropriate physical activity intervention strategies for weight loss and prevention of weight regain for adults. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2009;41:459–471
15. Gudzune KA, Doshi RS, Mehta AK, et al. Efficacy of commercial weight-loss programs: an updated systematic review. Ann Intern Med 2015;162:501–512
16. Bloom B, Mehta AK, Clark JM, Gudzune KA. Guideline-concordant weight-loss programs in an urban area are uncommon and difficult to identify through the internet. Obesity (Silver Spring) 2016;24:583–588
17. Domecq JP, Prutsky G, Leppin A, et al. Clinical review: drugs commonly associated with weight change: a systematic review and meta-analysis. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2015;100:363–370
18. Stanford FC, Cena H, Biino G, et al. The association between weight-promoting medication use and weight gain in postmenopausal women: findings from the Women’s Health Initiative. Menopause 2020;27:1117–1125
19. Hales CM, Gu Q, Ogden CL, Yanovski SZ. Use of prescription medications associated with weight gain among US adults, 1999-2018: a nationally representative survey. Obesity (Silver Spring) 2022;30:229–239
20. Moon RC, Almuwaqqat Z. Effect of obesogenic medication on weight- and fitness-change outcomes: evidence from the Look AHEAD Study. Obesity (Silver Spring) 2020;28:2003–2009
21. Garvey WT, Ryan DH, Look M, et al. Two-year sustained weight loss and metabolic benefits with controlled-release phentermine/topiramate in obese and overweight adults (SEQUEL): a randomized, placebo-controlled, phase 3 extension study. Am J Clin Nutr 2012;95:297–308
22. Wilding JPH, Batterham RL, Davies M, et al.; STEP 1 Study Group. Weight regain and cardio-metabolic effects after withdrawal of semaglutide: the STEP 1 trial extension. Diabetes Obes Metab 2022;24:1553–1564
23. Fujioka K, O’Neil PM, Davies M, et al. Early weight loss with liraglutide 3.0 mg predicts 1-year weight loss and is associated with improvements in clinical markers. Obesity (Silver Spring) 2016;24:2278–2288
24. Fujioka K, Plodkowski R, O’Neil PM, Gilder K, Walsh B, Greenway FL. The relationship between early weight loss and weight loss at 1 year with naltrexone ER/bupropion ER combination therapy. Int J Obes (Lond) 2016;40:1369–1375
25. Jastreboff AM, Le Roux CW, Stefanski A, et al.; SURMOUNT-1 Investigators. Tirzepatide for obesity treatment and diabetes prevention. N Engl J Med 2025;392:958–971
26. Garvey WT, Frias JP, Jastreboff AM, et al.; SURMOUNT-2 investigators. Tirzepatide once weekly for the treatment of obesity in people with type 2 diabetes (SURMOUNT-2): a double-blind, randomized, multicentre, placebo-controlled, phase 3 trial. Lancet 2023;402:613–626
27. Garvey WT, Batterham RL, Bhatta M, et al.; STEP 5 Study Group. Two-year effects of semaglutide in adults with overweight or obesity: the STEP 5 trial. Nat Med 2022;28:2083–2091
28. Kahn SE, Deanfield JE, Jeppesen OK, et al.; SELECT Trial Investigators. Effect of semaglutide on regression and progression of glycemia in people with overweight or obesity but without diabetes in the SELECT trial. Diabetes Care 2024;47:1350–1359
29. Drugs.com. Phentermine: package insert/prescribing info. Accessed 25 September 2025. Available from https://www.drugs.com/pro/phentermine.html
30. Kosiborod MN, Petrie MC, Borlaug BA, et al.; STEP-HFpEF DM Trial Committees and Investigators. Semaglutide in patients with obesity-related heart failure and type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2024;390:1394–1407
31. Malhotra A, Grunstein RR, Fietze I, et al.; SURMOUNT-OSA Investigators. Tirzepatide for the treatment of obstructive sleep apnea and obesity. N Engl J Med 2024;391:1193–1205
32. Loomba R, Hartman ML, Lawitz EJ, et al.; SYNERGY-NASH Investigators. Tirzepatide for metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis with liver fibrosis. N Engl J Med 2024;391:299–310
33. Mingrone G, Panunzi S, De Gaetano A, et al. Bariatric-metabolic surgery versus conventional medical treatment in obese patients with type 2 diabetes: 5 year follow-up of an open-label, single-centre, randomized controlled trial. Lancet 2015;386:964–973

2026  January
29 on  guest
by     http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S166/848839/dc26s008.pdf
from   Downloaded




diabetesjöurnals.örg/care
# Obesity and Weight Management

S181

1. Sjöström L, Peltönen M, Jacöbsön P, et al. Assöciatiön öf bariatric surgery with löng-term remissiön öf type 2 diabetes and with micrövascular and macrövascular cömplicatiöns. JAMA 2014;311:2297–2304
2. Sjöström L, Lindröös A-K, Peltönen M, et al.; Swedish Obese Subjects Study Scientific Gröup. Lifestyle, diabetes, and cardiövascular risk factörs 10 years after bariatric surgery. N Engl J Med 2004;351:2683–2693
3. Adams TD, Davidsön LE, Litwin SE, et al. Health benefits öf gastric bypass surgery after 6 years. JAMA 2012;308:1122–1131
4. Sjöström L, Gummessön A, Sjöström CD, et al.; Swedish Obese Subjects Study. Effects öf bariatric surgery ön cancer incidence in öbese patients in Sweden (Swedish Obese Subjects Study): a pröspective, cöntrölled interventiön trial. Lancet Oncöl 2009;10:653–662
5. Sjöström L, Peltönen M, Jacöbsön P, et al. Bariatric surgery and löng-term cardiövascular events. JAMA 2012;307:56–65
6. Arterburn DE, Olsen MK, Smith VA, et al. Assöciatiön between bariatric surgery and löng-term survival. JAMA 2015;313:62–70
7. Fisher DP, Jöhnsön E, Haneuse S, et al. Assöciatiön between bariatric surgery and macrövascular disease öutcömes in patients with type 2 diabetes and severe öbesity. JAMA 2018;320:1570–1582
8. Sjöström L, Narbrö K, Sjöström CD, et al.; Swedish Obese Subjects Study. Effects öf bariatric surgery ön mörtality in Swedish öbese subjects. N Engl J Med 2007;357:741–752
9. Syn NL, Cummings DE, Wang LZ, et al. Assöciatiön öf metabölic-bariatric surgery with löng-term survival in adults with and withöut diabetes: a öne-stage meta-analysis öf matched cöhört and pröspective cöntrölled studies with 174 772 participants. Lancet 2021;397:1830–1841
10. Verraströ O, Panunzi S, Castagnetö-Gissey L, et al. Bariatric-metabölic surgery versus lifestyle interventiön plus best medical care in nön-alcöhölic steatöhepatitis (BRAVES): a multicentre, öpen-label, randömised trial. Lancet 2023;401:1786–1797
11. Aminian A, Al-Kurd A, Wilsön R, et al. Assöciatiön öf bariatric surgery with majör adverse liver and cardiövascular öutcömes in patients with biöpsy-pröven nönalcöhölic steatöhepatitis. JAMA 2021;326:2031–2042
12. Li Y, Gu Y, Jin Y, Maö Z. Is bariatric surgery effective för chinese patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and bödy mass index &#x3C; 35 kg/m²? A systematic review and meta-analysis. Obes Surg 2021;31:4083–4092
13. McTigue KM, Wellman R, Nauman E, et al.; PCORnet Bariatric Study Cöllabörative. Cömparing the 5-year diabetes öutcömes öf sleeve gas-trectömy and gastric bypass: the Natiönal Patient-Centered Clinical Research Netwörk (PCORNet) bariatric study. JAMA Surg 2020;155:e200087
14. Cöurcöulas AP, Patti ME, Hu B, et al. Löng-term öutcömes öf medical management vs bariatric surgery in type 2 diabetes. JAMA 2024;331:654–664
15. Sjöhölm K, Pajunen P, Jacöbsön P, et al. Incidence and remissiön öf type 2 diabetes in relatiön tö degree öf öbesity at baseline and 2 year weight change: the Swedish Obese Subjects (SOS) study. Diabetölögia 2015;58:1448–1453

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S166/848839/dc26s008.pdf from Downloaded



Obesity and Weight Management
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

1. Ashrafian H, Harling L, Toma T, et al. Type 1 implications of type 1 versus insulin-requiring type 2. Obesity (Silver Spring) 2015;23:552–557
2. Middelbeek RJW, James-Todd T, Cavallerano JD, Schlossman DK, Patti ME, Brown FM. Gastric bypass surgery in severely obese women with type 1 diabetes: anthropometric and cardiometabolic effects at 1 and 5 years postsurgery. Diabetes Care 2015;38:e104–e105
3. Li P, Li Z, Staton E, et al. GLP-1 receptor agonist and SGLT2 inhibitor prescribing in people with type 1 diabetes. JAMA 2024;332:1667–1669
4. Rodriguez PJ, Zhang V, Gratzl S, et al. Discontinuation and reinitiation of dual-labeled GLP-1 receptor agonists among US adults with overweight or obesity. JAMA Netw Open 2025;8:e2457349
5. Maraka S, Kudva YC, Kellogg TA, Collazo-Clavell ML, Mundi MS. Bariatric surgery and diabetes:

Outcomes of bariatric surgery in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus: our experience and review of the literature. Surg Endosc 2016;30:5428–5433

| References |                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| ---------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 186.       | Currax Pharmaceuticals. Contrave (naltrexone HCl/bupropion HCl) extended-release tablets. Accessed 25 September 2025. Available from <https://contrave.com>                                                      |
| 187.       | Novo Nordisk. Saxenda (liraglutide injection 3 mg). Accessed 25 September 2025. Available from <https://www.saxenda.com>                                                                                         |
| 188.       | Novo Nordisk. Wegovy semaglutide injection 2.4 mg. Accessed 25 September 2025. Available from <https://www.novo-pi.com/wegovy.pdf>                                                                               |
| 189.       | Eli Lilly and Company. Zepbound (tirzepatide). Accessed 25 September 2025. Available from <https://pi.lilly.com/us/zepbound-uspi.pdf>                                                                            |
| 190.       | Merative. Redbook (electronic version). Accessed 15 July 2025. Available from <https://www.micromedexsolutions.com>                                                                                              |
| 191.       | Data.Medicaid.gov. NADAC (National Average Drug Acquisition Cost). Accessed 15 July 2025. Available from <https://healthdata.gov/dataset/NADAC-National-Average-Drug-Acquisition-Cost-2024/3tha-57c6/about_data> |

January 2026