Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

# 5. Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being to Improve Health Outcomes:

# Standards of Care in Diabetes—2026

Diabetes Care 2026;49(Suppl. 1):S89–S131 | https://doi.org/10.2337/dc26-S005

The American Diabetes Association (ADA) “Standards of Care in Diabetes” includes the ADA’s current clinical practice recommendations and is intended to provide the components of diabetes care, general treatment goals and guidelines, and tools to evaluate quality of care. Members of the ADA Professional Practice Committee for Diabetes, an interprofessional expert committee, are responsible for updating the Standards of Care annually, or more frequently as warranted. For a detailed description of ADA standards, statements, and reports, as well as the evidence-grading system for ADA’s clinical practice recommendations and a full list of Professional Practice Committee members, please refer to Introduction and Methodology. Readers who wish to comment on the Standards of Care are invited to do so at professional.diabetes.org/SOC.

Building positive health behaviors and maintaining psychological well-being are foundational for achieving diabetes management goals and maximizing quality of life (1,2). Essential to achieving these goals are diabetes self-management education and support (DSMES), medical nutrition therapy (MNT), routine physical activity, adequate quality sleep, support for cessation of tobacco products and vaping, health behavior counseling, and psychosocial care. Following an initial comprehensive health evaluation (see section 4, “Comprehensive Medical Evaluation and Assessment of Comorbidities”), health care professionals should engage in person-centered collaborative care with people with diabetes (3–7). Person-centered collaborative care is guided by shared decision-making in treatment plan selection; facilitating access to medical, behavioral, psychosocial, educational, and technological resources and support; and shared monitoring of agreed-upon diabetes care plans and behavioral goals (8,9). Routine care evaluations should include assessments of medical and behavioral health outcomes, particularly during periods of changes in health and well-being.

# DIABETES SELF-MANAGEMENT EDUCATION AND SUPPORT Recommendations

5.1 Advise all people with diabetes to participate in developmentally and culturally appropriate diabetes self-management education and support (DSMES) to facilitate informed decision-making, self-care behaviors, problem-solving, and active collaboration with the health care team.

5.2 Provide DSMES at diagnosis, annually and/or when not meeting treatment goals, when complicating factors develop (e.g., medical, functional, and psychosocial), and when transitions in life and care occur.

Suggested citation: American Diabetes Association Professional Practice Committee for Diabetes. 5. Facilitating positive health behaviors and well-being to improve health outcomes: Standards of Care in Diabetes—2026. Diabetes Care 2026;49 (Suppl. 1):S89–S131

© 2025 by the American Diabetes Association. Readers may use this work for educational, noncommercial purposes if properly cited and unaltered. The version of record may be linked at https://diabetesjournals.org/care, but ADA permission is required to post this work on any third-party site or platform. This publication and its contents may not be reproduced, distributed, or used for text or data mining, machine learning, or similar technologies without prior written permission. Requests to reuse, adapt, or distribute this work may be sent to permissions@diabetes.org. More information is available at https://diabetesjournals.org/journals/pages/license.






# Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being

# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

5.3 Assess clinical outcomes, health status, and well-being as key goals of DSMES on an individualized timeframe. C

5.4 Use behavioral strategies (e.g., motivational interviewing, goal setting, problem-solving) to support DSMES and engagement in behaviors known to optimize health-related quality of life and outcomes. A

5.5 Provide culturally and socially appropriate DSMES responsive to personal preferences and needs in group or individual settings. A

Communicate DSMES participation with the diabetes care team. E

5.6 Offer DSMES via telehealth and/or digital interventions to meet individual preferences, reduce access barriers, and improve satisfaction. B

5.7 DSMES can improve outcomes and reduce costs, so reimbursement by third-party payors is recommended. B

5.8 Identify and address barriers to DSMES that exist at the payor, health system, clinic, health care professional, and individual levels. E

5.9 Assess the social determinants of health to guide and design delivery of DSMES to maximize health equity across populations. C

The overall objectives of DSMES are to support informed decision-making, self-care behaviors, problem-solving, and active collaboration with the health care team to improve clinical outcomes, health status, and well-being in a cost-effective manner (2). DSMES facilitates the knowledge, decision-making, and skills mastery necessary for optimal diabetes self-care and incorporates the needs, goals, and life experiences of the person with diabetes (10). When providing DSMES, health care professionals should consider a person’s burden of treatment, level of self-efficacy for self-care behaviors, and degree of social and family support.

Engagement in self-management behaviors and subsequent clinical outcomes, health status, and quality of life, in addition to psychosocial factors affecting the person’s ability to self-manage, should be monitored on an individualized timeframe (e.g., the four critical times listed in Recommendation 5.2). A randomized controlled trial (RCT) that evaluated a decision-making education and skill-building program (11) improved health outcomes and quality of care (12).

Strong evidence now exists for the benefits of telehealth, telemedicine, and telephone-based or internet-based (i.e., virtual) DSMES for diabetes prevention and management in a wide variety of populations and age-groups (10,41–43). When feasible, the best choice for delivery of DSMES is whatever approach aligns best with individual preferences. A 2023 systematic review and meta-analysis of RCTs reported moderate evidence indicating digital health technologies (e.g., mobile apps, websites, digital coaching, and SMS [i.e., texting]) can be effective modes of intervention delivery for DSMES. In fact, telehealth-based interventions have been...

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf from Downloaded





diabetesjournals.org/care
# Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being

found to produce a greater reduction in A1C (−0.30 percentage points; 95% CI −0.42 to −0.19) compared with control (42). Importantly, these digital methods provide outcomes that are comparable with or even better than those seen with traditional in-person care (42). Greater A1C reductions are demonstrated with increased virtual engagement, although data from trials are heterogeneous.

Diabetes care and education specialists (DCES) are effective providers of DSMES. Members of the DSMES team can include a variety of health care professionals such as nurses (registered nurses and nurse practitioners), registered dietitian nutritionists (RDNs), pharmacists, social workers, certified health education specialists, exercise physiologists, psychologists and behavioral health professionals, community health workers, care coordinators or navigators, and others who can tailor curricula to individual needs (44–46). Team members acting in a DCES capacity should have specialized clinical knowledge of diabetes and behavior change principles. In addition, a DCES needs to be knowledgeable about technology-enabled services and can serve as a technology champion within their practice (47). Credentials such as certified DCES (cbdce.org/) and/or board certification in advanced diabetes management (BC-ADM) (diabeteseducator.org/education/certification/bc_adm) demonstrate an individual’s specialized training and expertise in diabetes management, education, and support (10), and engagement with qualified professionals has been shown to improve diabetes-related outcomes (48).

There is also continued and growing evidence for the role of community health workers, peer educators, peer support, and lay leaders in providing ongoing diabetes self-management support (49,50). In locations where there are no DCES services available, other members of the diabetes care team can provide some aspects of DSMES; however, billing restrictions need to be considered (51).

Social determinants of health (SDOH) are an important aspect of diabetes care and should be assessed and weighed in guiding the design and delivery of DSMES. The DSMES team needs to consider characteristics such as racial identity, ethnic and cultural background, biological sex and gender identity, age, geographic location, technology access, education, literacy, and numeracy (13). Barriers to equitable DSMES access can be mitigated by assessing the impact of the individual’s SDOH and leveraging creative delivery options (e.g., telehealth and online) that will improve access to DSMES (55). Use of diabetes technologies warrants broader adoption because they can reduce therapeutic inertia and should be explored as part of continuous improvement (55,56).

One potential model is virtual environments, which allow people with diabetes to self-represent as avatars and interact in a world with embedded informational resources accessed using principles of gamification. An example of this is from an RCT that tested DSMES in a virtual environment that demonstrated greater weight loss and similar decreases in A1C, blood pressure, cholesterol, and triglycerides compared with DSMES via a standard website (57).

These nontraditional versions of DSMES may not always be reimbursed; however, adopting reimbursement policies that increase DSMES access and use will positively affect beneficiaries’ clinical outcomes, quality of life, health care use, and costs (10,58).

Of all the newer diabetes technologies, CGM might be the most widely adopted. When combined with individualized DSMES or behavioral interventions, CGM demonstrated greater improvement of glycemic and psychosocial outcomes than CGM alone (59,60). Similarly, DSMES plus intermittently scanned CGM (isCGM) demonstrated increased time in range (70–180 mg/dL [3.9–10.0 mmol/L]), less time above range, and greater reduction in A1C compared with DSMES alone (61).

Incorporating a systematic approach for technology assessment, adoption, and integration into the diabetes care plan could help ensure equity in access to social needs support. A 15% increase in receipt of DSMES, including among people on Medicaid, was documented (54).

# Reimbursement

Medicare reimburses DSMES (known as diabetes self-management training [DSMT] by Medicare) when the services are provided in accordance with the National Standards for DSMES (2,10) and is recognized by the American Diabetes Association (ADA) through the Education Recognition Program (professional.diabetes.org/diabetes-education) or by the Association of Diabetes Care &#x26; Education Specialists (ADCES) (https://www.adces.org/diabetes-education-dsmes/diabetes-education-accreditation-program).

DSMES is also covered by most insurance plans. Ongoing support has been shown to be instrumental for improving outcomes when it is implemented after the completion of formal DSMES.

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf from Downloaded




S92  Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being    Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

Information about Medicare reimbursement, please refer to the ADA consensus report on nutrition therapy (46). Contained in the report is an important and often repeated tenet, i.e., there is no one-size-fits-all eating pattern for individuals with diabetes, and meal planning should be individualized. Nutrition therapy plays an integral role in overall diabetes management, and each person with diabetes should actively engage in education, self-management, and treatment planning with the health care team and participate in collaborative development of an individualized eating plan (46,75).

All people with diabetes should be referred for individualized MNT provided by an RDN who is experienced and skilled in providing diabetes-specific MNT (76–78), at diagnosis and as needed throughout the life span, like DSMES. Referrals to RDNs are particularly warranted when a person with diabetes is dealing with additional health conditions such as hypertension, dyslipidemia, heart failure, gastrointestinal disorders, chronic kidney disease (CKD), pregnancy-related nutrition concerns, pediatric growth issues, or obesity (79). See Table 5.1 for nutrition recommendations and Table 5.2 for nutrition behaviors that should be encouraged.

# Eating Patterns and Meal Planning

To better understand the role of nutrition in diabetes, it is important to clarify terminology. Food patterns, eating plans, and approaches are terms that are often used interchangeably, but they are different and relevant in individualizing nutrition care plans (80).

- Eating pattern, dietary pattern, or food pattern: The totality of all foods and beverages consumed over a given period of time. An eating pattern can be ascribed to an individual, but it is also the term used in prospective cohort and observational nutrition studies to classify nutrition patterns. Examples include Mediterranean style, Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH), low carbohydrate, vegetarian, and plant-based (80).
- Eating/meal plan: An individualized guide to plan when, what, and how much to eat on a daily basis, completed by the person with diabetes and the RDN. The eating plan could incorporate an eating pattern combined with a strategy to direct some of the choices. Eating plans are based on an individual’s usual.

2026  January
29 on  guest
by     http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf
Downloaded




diabetesjournals.org/care
# Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being

# Table 5.1—Nutrition recommendations

Recommendations
5.10 Provide individualized medical nutrition therapy by referring people with prediabetes or diabetes to a registered dietitian nutritionist, preferably one who has comprehensive experience in diabetes care. A
5.11 Diabetes medical nutrition therapy can result in cost savings B and improved cardiometabolic outcomes A and should be reimbursed by insurance. E
5.12 Provide an overweight or obesity treatment plan based on their nutrition, physical activity, and behavioral health status for all people with overweight or obesity, aiming for at least 5–7% weight loss. A
5.13 For diabetes prevention and management of people with prediabetes or diabetes, recommend individualized meal plans that keep nutrient quality, total calories, and metabolic goals in mind. B
5.14 Eating patterns should emphasize key nutrition principles (inclusion of nonstarchy vegetables, whole fruits, legumes, lean proteins, whole grains, nuts and seeds, and low-fat dairy or nondairy alternatives) and minimize consumption of red meat, sugar-sweetened beverages, sweets, refined grains, processed and ultraprocessed foods in people with prediabetes and diabetes. B
5.15 Consider reducing carbohydrate intake for some adults with diabetes to improve glycemia. An effective way to achieve this is by limiting consumption of processed foods. B
5.16 Assess intake of supplements, as supplementation with micronutrients (e.g., vitamins and minerals, such as magnesium or chromium) or herbs or spices (e.g., cinnamon and aloe vera) is not recommended for glycemic benefits. C
5.17 Counsel against β-carotene supplementation, as there is evidence of harm for certain individuals and it confers no benefit. B
5.18 Advise adults with diabetes and those at risk for diabetes who consume alcohol to not exceed the recommended daily limits. B Advise abstainers to not start drinking alcohol, even in moderation. B
5.19 Counsel people with diabetes about the signs, symptoms, and self-management of delayed hypoglycemia and the importance of monitoring glucose after drinking alcohol to reduce hypoglycemia risk, especially when using insulin or insulin secretagogues. B
5.20 Counsel people with diabetes to limit sodium consumption to &#x3C;2,300 mg/day, as clinically appropriate, and the best way to achieve this is through limiting consumption of processed foods. B
5.21 Encourage people with diabetes and those at risk for diabetes to consume water over other beverages. A
5.22 Counsel people with diabetes and those at risk for diabetes that nonnutritive sweeteners can be used in place of sugar-sweetened products if consumed in moderation and for the short term to reduce overall calorie and carbohydrate intake. B
5.23 Counsel and regularly monitor individuals pursuing intentional weight loss to ensure adequate nutritional intake, with particular attention to preventing protein insufficiency and micronutrient deficiencies. E
5.24 Emphasize minimally processed, nutrient-dense, high-fiber sources of carbohydrate (at least 14 g fiber per 1,000 kcal). B
5.25 Advise people with diabetes and those at risk for diabetes to replace sugar-sweetened beverages (including any juices) with water or low-calorie or no-calorie beverages and minimize foods with added sugar to manage glycemia and reduce risk for cardiometabolic disease. B
5.26 Educate individuals with diabetes who are at risk for developing diabetic ketoacidosis and who are treated with sodium–glucose cotransporter inhibition on the risks and signs of ketoacidosis and methods of risk mitigation management, provide them with appropriate tools for ketone measurement (i.e., serum β-hydroxybutyrate), and discourage a ketogenic eating pattern. E
5.27 Provide education on the glycemic impact of carbohydrate, A fat, and protein B tailored to an individual’s needs, insulin plan, and preferences for care to optimize mealtime insulin dosing.
5.28 Counsel people using fixed insulin doses about consistent patterns of carbohydrate intake with respect to time and amount while considering the insulin action time, as it can result in improved glycemia and reduce the risk for hypoglycemia. B
5.29 Counsel people with diabetes and those at risk for diabetes to incorporate more plant-based protein sources (e.g., nuts, seeds, and legumes) as part of an overall diverse eating pattern to reduce cardiovascular disease risk. B
5.30 Counsel people with diabetes and those at risk for diabetes to consider an eating plan emphasizing elements of a Mediterranean eating pattern, which is rich in fatty fish, nuts, and seeds, to reduce cardiovascular disease risk A and improve glucose metabolism. B
5.31 Counsel people with diabetes and those at risk for diabetes to limit intake of foods high in saturated fat to help reduce cardiovascular disease risk. B

eating style, cultural background, SDOH, and food preferences.

• Eating/meal plan approach. Method to individualize a desired eating pattern and provide practical tools for developing healthy eating patterns. Examples include the plate method, carbohydrate choice, and highly individualized behavioral approaches (81).

Meal Planning There is no ideal percentage of calories from carbohydrate, protein, or fat for people with diabetes. Therefore, macronutrient distribution should be based on an individualized assessment of current eating patterns, preferences, and metabolic goals. Members of the health care team should complement and reinforce MNT by providing evidence-based guidance to help.

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf from Downloaded



Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being
# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

# Table 5.2—Nutrition behaviors to encourage

- Vegetables—especially nonstarchy vegetables that are dark green, red, and orange in color; fresh, frozen, or low-sodium canned are all acceptable vegetable options.
- Legumes—dried beans, peas, and lentils.
- Fruits—especially whole fruit—fresh, frozen, or canned in own juice (or no added sugar) are all acceptable fruit options.
- Foods with at least 3 g of fiber per serving are generally considered higher fiber choices. Whole-grain foods—where culturally appropriate, whole-grain versions of commonly consumed foods, such as 100% whole-wheat breads or pastas and brown rice. When not culturally appropriate, focus more on portion control.
- Water should be the primary beverage of choice.
- For individuals who do not prefer plain water, no-calorie alternatives are the next best choice. Options include adding lemon, lime, berries, or cucumber slices to water; sparkling no-calorie water or flavored no-calorie waters; no-calorie carbonated beverages.
- Plant-based proteins can include legumes (e.g., soybeans, pinto beans, black beans, garbanzo beans, dried peas, and lentils), nuts, and seeds.
- Meats and poultry should be from fresh, frozen, or low-sodium canned and in lean forms (e.g., chicken breast and ground turkey).
- Heart-healthy wild-caught fatty fish such as salmon, tuna, sardines, and mackerel. Fresh, frozen, or low-sodium canned are all acceptable options.
- Use herbs (e.g., basil, fennel, mint, parsley, rosemary, and thyme) and spices (e.g., cinnamon, garam masala, ginger, pepper, and turmeric) to season foods instead of salt or salt-containing preparations.
- Incorporate onions, garlic, celery, carrots, and other vegetables as a base for preparing various homemade foods.
- Cook with vegetable oil (e.g., avocado, canola, and olive) in place of fats high in saturated fat (e.g., butter, coconut oil, lard, and shortening).
- Plan out meals for the week. Grocery shop using a list. Cook on a day off so there are ready-to-eat and ready-to-reheat homemade meals waiting in the fridge or freezer.
- Include family or roommates in meal preparation; share the responsibilities of grocery shopping and cooking and use time off for meal preparation in advance when possible.

People with diabetes make healthy food choices that meet their individualized needs and improve overall health. Ultimately, ongoing diabetes and nutrition education paired with appropriate support to implement and sustain health behaviors are recommended (78).

Research confirms a variety of eating patterns are acceptable for diabetes management (46,74,82,83). Evidence-based eating patterns most frequently recommended include Mediterranean, DASH, low-fat, carbohydrate-restricted, vegetarian, and vegan eating patterns. Until evidence around benefits of specific eating patterns is strengthened, health care professionals should focus on the common core characteristics among healthful patterns: inclusion of nonstarchy vegetables, whole fruits, legumes, whole grains, nuts, seeds, and low-fat dairy products or nondairy replacements and minimizing consumption of red meat, sugar-sweetened beverages, sweets, refined grains, and processed and ultraprocessed foods (84,85). The recent Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension for Diabetes (DASH4D) RCT further supports this guidance (86). In their randomized crossover feeding study conducted from 2021 to 2024, adults with type 2 diabetes and hypertension improved time in range (mean difference 5.2%; P &#x3C; 0.001) and blood pressure. The intervention eating pattern was moderate in carbohydrates (45% of total calories), rich in fruits, vegetables, whole grains, lean proteins, and low-fat dairy, and low in saturated fat, sugar-sweetened beverages, and sodium.

Carbohydrate counting is a more advanced skill that helps plan for and track how much carbohydrate is consumed at meals and snacks. In a systematic review and meta-analysis of carbohydrate counting versus other forms of meal planning advice (e.g., standard education, low glycemic index [GI], and fixed carbohydrate quantities), no significant differences were seen in A1C levels compared with standard education (89). In another RCT, a simplified carbohydrate counting tool based on individual glycemic response was noninferior to conventional carbohydrate counting in 85 adults with type 1 diabetes (90).

Few head-to-head studies have compared different eating approaches. The diabetes plate method (87) is a commonly used visual approach for providing basic meal planning guidance for individuals with type 1 and type 2 diabetes. One RCT found that both the diabetes plate method and carbohydrate counting were effective in helping achieve improved A1C (88). The newer technologies (e.g., smartphone apps and CGM) and...

January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf from Downloaded



diabetesjournals.org/care
# Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being

AID systems may reduce the need for precise carbohydrate counting and low carbohydrate (&#x3C;26% total energy), Regardless of carbohydrate quantity in the meal plan, the focus should be on high-quality, minimally processed, nutrient-dense, high-fiber carbohydrate sources. Fiber modulates gut microbiota composition and increases gut microbial diversity. Although there is still much to be elucidated about the gut microbiome and chronic disease, higher-fiber eating patterns are advantageous. Both children and adults with diabetes are encouraged to minimize intake of refined carbohydrates with added sugars, fat, and sodium and instead focus on carbohydrates from vegetables, legumes, fruits, dairy (milk and yogurt) or fortified nondairy alternatives, and whole grains. People with diabetes and those at risk for diabetes are encouraged to consume a minimum of 14 g of fiber/1,000 kcal, with at least half of grain consumption being whole, intact grains, according to the Dietary Guidelines for Americans, 2020–2025.

# Nutrition Therapy Goals for All People With Diabetes

1. To promote and support healthful eating patterns, emphasizing a variety of nutrient-dense foods in appropriate portion sizes, contributing to improved overall health, and to:
- achieve and maintain body weight goals
- attain individualized glycemic, blood pressure, and lipid goals
- delay or prevent the complications of diabetes
2. To address individual nutrition needs based on personal and cultural preferences, health literacy and numeracy, access to healthful foods, willingness to make behavioral changes, and existing barriers to change
3. To maintain the pleasure of eating by providing nonjudgmental messages about food choices while also reducing or limiting certain foods only when indicated by scientific evidence
4. To provide an individual with diabetes the practical tools for developing healthy eating patterns rather than focusing on individual macronutrients, micronutrients, or single foods

# Carbohydrates

Studies examining the optimal amount of carbohydrate intake for people with diabetes are inconclusive, although monitoring carbohydrate intake is a key strategy in reaching glucose goals in people with type 1 and type 2 diabetes. The amount of carbohydrate intake for people with type 2 diabetes has been a focus of research for many years. Systematic reviews and meta-analyses of RCTs report carbohydrate-restricted eating patterns, particularly those considered very low.

Maintaining adequate hydration is also very important.

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf from Downloaded



Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being
# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

Individuals with type 1 or type 2 diabetes taking insulin at mealtime should be offered comprehensive and ongoing education about nutrition content and the need to couple insulin administration with carbohydrate intake. For people whose meal schedule or carbohydrate consumption is variable, education on the relationship between carbohydrate intake and insulin needs is important. In addition, assessing food literacy, numeracy, interest, and capability should be evaluated, especially if teaching more advanced methods of MNT diabetes management such as insulin-to-carbohydrate ratios. Teaching insulin-to-carbohydrate ratios for meal planning can assist individuals with effectively modifying insulin dosing from meal to meal to improve glycemic management.

Consumption of fat and protein can affect early and delayed postprandial glycemia, and it appears to have a dose-dependent response. However, more research is needed to determine the optimal insulin dose and delivery strategy. A cautious approach to increasing insulin doses for high-fat and/or high-protein mixed meals is recommended to address delayed hyperglycemia that may occur after eating. For individuals using an insulin pump, a split bolus feature may provide better insulin coverage for high-fat and/or high-protein mixed meals.

Insulin dosing decisions should be confirmed with a structured approach to blood glucose monitoring or CGM to evaluate individual responses and guide insulin dose adjustments. Checking glucose 3 hours after eating may help determine if additional insulin adjustments are required. For individuals on a fixed daily insulin schedule, meal planning should emphasize a relatively fixed carbohydrate consumption pattern with respect to both time and amount while considering insulin action. Attention to hunger and satiety cues also helps.

# Protein

There is no evidence that adjusting the daily protein intake above or below the recommended amount for the general public (typically 0.8–1.5 g/kg body weight/day or 15–20% of total calories) will improve health, and research is inconclusive regarding the ideal amount of dietary protein to optimize either glycemic management or CVD risk. Therefore, protein intake goals should be individualized based on current eating patterns. Some research has found successful management of type 2 diabetes with meal plans including slightly higher levels of protein (20–30%), which may contribute to increased satiety.

Historically, low-protein eating plans were advised for individuals with diabetes-related CKD; however, current evidence does not suggest that people with CKD need to restrict protein to less than the generally recommended protein intake. Reducing the amount of protein below the recommended daily allowance of 0.8 g/kg is not recommended because it does not alter glycemic measures, cardiovascular risk measures, or the rate at which eGFR declines and may increase risk for malnutrition.

Growing evidence suggests higher plant protein intake and replacement of animal protein with plant protein is associated with lower risk of all-cause and cardiovascular mortality. A meta-analysis of 13 RCTs showed that replacing animal proteins with plant proteins leads to small improvements in A1C and fasting glucose in adults with type 2 diabetes. A systematic review and meta-analysis including over 22,500 prospective study participants followed for 9.8 years reported that replacing saturated fats with other macronutrients, such as polyunsaturated fats, was associated with reduced CVD occurrence. Trans fats should be avoided. Importantly, it should be noted that as foods high in saturated fats are progressively decreased, they should be replaced with foods high in unsaturated fats and not with refined carbohydrate foods.

29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf from Downloaded



diabetesjournals.org/care
# Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being

Evidence does not conclusively support recommending n-3 (eicosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid) supplements for people with diabetes for the prevention or treatment of cardiovascular events (46,140). In individuals with type 2 diabetes, two systematic reviews with n-3 and n-6 fatty acids concluded that the dietary supplements did not improve glycemic management (141,142). In the ASCEND (A Study of Cardiovascular Events iN Diabetes) trial, when compared with placebo, supplementation with n-3 fatty acids at a dose of 1 g/day did not lead to cardiovascular benefit in people with diabetes without evidence of CVD (143). However, results from the Reduction of Cardiovascular Events with Icosapent Ethyl-Intervention Trial (REDUCE-IT) found that supplementation with 4 g/day pure eicosapentaenoic acid significantly lowered the risk of adverse cardiovascular events. REDUCE-IT included 8,179 participants, of whom over 50% had diabetes, and found a 5% absolute reduction in cardiovascular events for individuals with established atherosclerotic CVD already treated with a statin with residual hypertriglyceridemia (135–499 mg/dL [1.52–5.63 mmol/L]) (144). See section 10, “Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management,” for more information.

# Micronutrients and Other Supplements

Despite lack of evidence of benefit from dietary supplements, consumers continue to take them. Estimates show that up to 59% of people with diabetes in the U.S. use supplements (148). Without underlying deficiency, there is no benefit from herbal or other (i.e., vitamin or mineral) supplementation for people with diabetes (46,149).

# Sodium

As for the general population, people with diabetes are advised to limit their sodium consumption to &#x3C;2,300 mg/day (46,145). Sodium intake has been shown to mediate glucose metabolism in a number of studies and affect eGFR, so limiting sodium intake is a valuable strategy for people with diabetes with or without kidney disease (145,146). In their post hoc analysis of the DASH-sodium RCT, Morales-Alvarez et al. (147) reported that participants randomized to the low-sodium DASH eating pattern (containing ∼1,150 mg sodium/day [50 mmol sodium/day]) had a change in eGFR of –3.10 mL/min/1.73 m² (95% CI –5.46 to –0.73) after 4 weeks compared with 3,450 mg sodium/day (150 mmol sodium/day).

The DASH4D trial, which was a randomized 4-period crossover community-based feeding study, reported that in comparison with the eating pattern formulated with higher levels of sodium, the DASH4D eating pattern with lower sodium (1,500 mg/day at 2,000 kcal) resulted in improved systolic blood pressure.

# Alcohol

Long-term effects of alcohol consumption for people with diabetes are unknown. The World Health Organization declared there is no safe amount of alcohol intake (164,165). Associated risks of alcohol consumption include hypoglycemia and/or delayed hypoglycemia (particularly for those.

January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf from Downloaded



S98  Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being
# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

using insulin or insulin secretagogue therapies), weight gain, and hyperglycemia (for those consuming excessive amounts) (46,166). People with diabetes should be educated about these risks and encouraged to monitor glucose frequently before and after drinking alcohol to minimize such risks. People with diabetes who consume alcohol can follow the same guidelines as people without diabetes consistent with the Dietary Guidelines for Americans, 2020–2025 (72), which does not promote alcohol consumption in people who do not already drink. To reduce risk of alcohol-related harms, adults can choose not to drink or to drink in moderation by limiting intake to ≤2 drinks a day for men or ≤1 drink a day for women (one drink is equal to a 12-oz beer, a 5-oz glass of wine, or 1.5 oz of distilled spirits) (72). Recent meta-analyses have reported the previously recognized J-shaped relationship between alcohol intake and health risks likely varies by sex, obesity status, genetics, and alcohol intake behaviors (167,168).

# Nonnutritive Sweeteners and Water

The FDA has approved many nonnutritive sweeteners (NNS) (containing few or no calories; commonly referred to as artificial sweeteners) for consumption by the general public, including people with diabetes (46,169). However, the safety and role of NNS continue to be sources of concern and confusion for the public. For some people with diabetes who are accustomed to regularly consuming sugar-sweetened foods or beverages (e.g., regular soda pop, juice drinks, and other items sweetened with cane sugar or high-fructose corn syrup), NNS may be an acceptable substitute for nutritive sweeteners (those containing calories, such as sugar, honey, and agave syrup) when consumed in moderation (i.e., consuming no more than the acceptable daily intake) (170). NNS do not appear to have a significant effect on glycemic management (171,172), and they can reduce overall calorie and carbohydrate intake as long as individuals are not compensating with additional calories from other food sources (46,173). A meta-analysis and systematic review of RCTs found no evidence that NNS raise liver enzymes (174).

There is mixed evidence from systematic reviews and meta-analyses for NNS use with regard to weight management, with some finding benefit for weight loss (175–177) while other research suggests an association with weight gain (178,179). This may be explained by reverse causality and residual confounding variables (179). Behavior modification goals should address physical activity, calorie restriction, healthy weight management strategies, and motivation. There is strong and consistent evidence that modest, sustained weight loss can delay the progression from prediabetes to type 2 diabetes (78,182,183) (see section 3, “Prevention or Delay of Diabetes and Associated Comorbidities”) and is beneficial for type 2 diabetes management (see section 8, “Obesity and Weight Management for the Prevention and Treatment Diabetes”).

In prediabetes, the weight loss goal is at least 5–7% from baseline body weight, and it is higher for reducing risk of progression to type 2 diabetes. Some RCTs report less than 5% weight loss in adults with diabetes and overweight or obesity following a lifestyle behavioral intervention, but this limited amount of weight loss has not been shown to improve glycemia, lipids, or blood pressure; rather, a minimum weight loss of 5% or more seems necessary to achieve metabolic improvements (184). In conjunction with support for healthy lifestyle behaviors, medication-assisted weight loss can be considered for people at risk for type 2 diabetes when needed to achieve and sustain 7–10% weight loss (185,186) (see section 8, “Obesity and Weight Management for the Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes”).

People with prediabetes and healthy weight range should also be considered for behavioral interventions to help establish routine aerobic and resistance exercise (182,187,188) and healthy eating patterns. Services delivered by health care professionals familiar with diabetes and its management, such as an RDN, have been found to be effective (77). For many individuals with overweight or obesity alongside type 2 diabetes, at least 5% weight loss is needed to achieve beneficial outcomes in glycemic management, lipids, and blood pressure (189). However, any magnitude of weight loss is recommended. It also should be noted that the clinical benefits of weight loss are progressive, and more intensive weight loss goals (i.e., 15%) may be appropriate to maximize benefit depending on need, feasibility, and safety (190,191). Long-term sustainability of weight loss remains a challenge (192). For example, in some South Asian adult populations, traditional interventions have not been as effective in prevention or remission of type 2 diabetes.

2026  January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf from Downloaded



diabetesjournals.org/care
# Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being

those groups will beneﬁt from more culturally tailored interventional approaches (193). Medications can augment MNT to support weight loss, weight loss maintenance, and improve cardiovascular outcomes. Newer medications (e.g., glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonists [GLP-1 RAs]) may be more viable, positively affect cardiovascular outcomes, and produce weight reduction beyond 10–15% (194–198). For more information on the nutritional considerations important for people undergoing significant weight loss, see MONITORING NUTRITION INTAKE, below.

Overweight and obesity are increasingly prevalent in people with type 1 diabetes and present clinical challenges regarding diabetes treatment and CVD risk factors (199,200). There is some evidence that GLP-1 RAs are useful in achieving weight loss among adults with type 1 diabetes, although with a higher risk of nausea and ketosis (201). Regardless of diabetes type, weight loss maintenance is challenging (184,202) but has well-recognized long-term benefits. Weight loss maintenance physiology is complex and involves many hormonal, psychosocial, behavioral, and environmental factors. Following a weight loss of at least 8%, a subsequent “weight loss maintenance” intervention was reported to be only moderately beneficial, as it helped sustain physical health improvements but not glucose metabolism improvements (203). However, in another RCT with long-term, real-world, clinic-based follow-up of 10 years, Tomah et al. (204) reported lasting glycemic benefits in their cohort with an average weight loss of 7.7 ± 0.9 kg (−6.9 ± 0.8%) maintained for 10 years.

Starting a conversation about weight management should be based on motivational interviewing techniques (205), beginning with first asking the individual if they want to discuss their weight. Health care professionals should never assume a person with overweight or obesity wants to discuss weight at a medical appointment, especially if the appointment is for a seemingly unrelated issue (e.g., back pain, which many people do not realize is often secondary to excess body weight). Using person-centered approaches to weight management conversations involves meeting the individual where they are in their life and working with what they and their health care professional agree is the most beneficial approach. Guidance from an RDN is needed to optimize self-efficacy and maintain behavioral changes (211).

# Fasting and Timing of Food Intake

Chrononutrition is an emerging nutrition and biology subspecialty aimed toward increasing the understanding of how the timing of food ingestion affects metabolic health (212). Glucose metabolism follows a circadian rhythm through diurnal variation of glucose tolerance and peaks during daylight hours when food is consumed. Some preliminary studies show cardiometabolic benefits when food is consumed earlier (213). Similarly, circadian disruptions found in shift workers increase risk of type 2 diabetes (214). This evolving area of research currently lacks conclusive evidence, but future studies are anticipated.

# Nonreligious Fasting

The primary forms of nonreligious fasting are intermittent fasting or time-restricted eating. These are popular strategies for weight and glucose management. One of the key distinctions between nonreligious and religious fasting is water intake. See Fig. 5.1 for further details on how religious and nonreligious fasting practices compare. Intermittent fasting is an umbrella term that includes three main forms of restricted eating: alternate-day fasting (energy restriction of 500–600 calories on alternate days), the 5:2 eating pattern (energy restriction of 500–600 calories on consecutive or nonconsecutive days with usual intake the other five), and time-restricted eating (daily calorie restriction based on a window of time of 8–15 h). Each produces mild to moderate weight loss (3–8% loss from baseline) over short durations (8–12 weeks) with no significant differences in weight loss when compared with continuous calorie restriction (215,216). A 2024 systematic review and meta-analysis of RCTs examined the most common types of fasting in studies lasting 2–52 weeks. The authors concluded that intermittent energy restriction produces small but significant reductions in waist circumference and fat-free mass but were otherwise not superior to continuous energy restriction eating patterns (217). Generally, time-restricted eating or shortening the eating window can be adapted to any.

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf from Downloaded




S100  Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being    Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

# Religious and intermittent fasting: differences and similarities

| RELIGIOUS FASTING                                                          | risk                                       | INTERMITTENT FASTING                                 |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Fixed duration and timing                                                  | •                                          | Flexible duration and timing                         |
| High levels of intrinsic motivation                                        | Risk assessment and education is essential | Varying levels of intrinsic and extrinsic motivation |
| Risk of hyperglycemia at end of fasting hours with or without ketoacidosis | Dehydration is possible in some types      | No added risk of dehydration                         |
|                                                                            | Treatment adjustment is required           |                                                      |

Figure 5.1—Differences and similarities between religious and intermittent fasting for people with diabetes.

Although intermittent fasting and time-restricted eating are specific dietary strategies for energy restriction, religious fasting has been practiced for thousands of years and is part of many faith-based traditions. Duration, frequency, and type of fast vary among different religions. For example, Jewish people abstain from any intake for ∼25 h during Yom Kippur. For Muslims, Ramadan fasting lasts for a full month, when abstinence from any food or drink is required from dawn to dusk. Individuals with diabetes who fast have an increased risk for hypoglycemia, dehydration, hyperglycemia, and ketoacidosis. Risk assessment is essential to increase safety.

# Religious Fasting Recommendations

1. Use the updated International Diabetes Federation along with Diabetes and Ramadan International Alliance comprehensive prefasting risk assessment to generate a risk score for the safety of religious fasting. Provide fasting-focused education to minimize risks.
2. Assess and optimize treatment plan, dose, and timing for people with diabetes well in advance of religious fasting to reduce risk of hypoglycemia, dehydration, hyperglycemia, and/or ketoacidosis.

It is important for the health care professional to comprehensively assess these risk factors well in advance of the planned fasting date, as some of them are modifiable. Some of these factors are related to the nature of the fasting practice, others are related to diabetes, and others might be due to individual factors such as the physical intensity of their work and/or the nutrition choices when they break their fast. The International Diabetes Federation along with Diabetes and Ramadan International Alliance adopted a risk calculator for the various risk factors. Several clinical studies from different countries have been published that assess the validity of the fasting risk score and the ease of use of it. The accumulation of these risk factors provides a risk score as low, moderate, or high (Table 5.3). While the risks of different religious fasting practices may vary, this risk calculator provides some useful guidance for other types of religious fasting.

Prefasting education regarding the importance of glucose monitoring is very important. Timing of glucose monitoring is also especially important.

2026  January
29 on  guest
by     http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf
Downloaded




diabetesjournals.org/care
# Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being

# Table 5.3—Elements for risk calculation and suggested risk score for people with diabetes who seek to fast during Ramadan

| Fasting risk element                                                              | Risk score                                                                 |      |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---- |
| 1. Pregnancy with any type of diabetes                                            | Yes                                                                        | 6.5  |
| 2. Diabetes type                                                                  | Type 1 diabetes or LADA                                                    | 1    |
|                                                                                   | Type 2 diabetes or any other type of diabetes                              | 0    |
| 3. Duration of diabetes (years)                                                   | >20 years                                                                  | 1    |
|                                                                                   | 10–20 years                                                                | 0.5  |
|                                                                                   | <10 years                                                                  | 0    |
| 4. Type of diabetes treatment (select all that are relevant)                      | Multiple daily premixed insulin injections                                 | 2    |
|                                                                                   | Once-daily premixed insulin                                                | 1.5  |
|                                                                                   | Open-loop insulin pump                                                     | 1.5  |
|                                                                                   | Automated insulin delivery system                                          | 1    |
|                                                                                   | Standard basal insulin (NPH, detemir, or glargine 100)                     | 1    |
|                                                                                   | Ultra-long-acting basal insulin (glargine 300 or degludec)                 | 0.75 |
|                                                                                   | Short-acting insulin                                                       | 0.75 |
|                                                                                   | Glibenclamide or glipizide                                                 | 0.75 |
|                                                                                   | Modern sulfonylurea (gliclazide, gliclazide MR, glimepride) or repeglanide | 0.5  |
|                                                                                   | >=2 glucose-lowering medications excluding insulin or sulfonylurea         | 0.25 |
| 5. Nutrition modification only or monotherapy (excluding insulin or sulfonylurea) |                                                                            | 0    |
| Presence of hypoglycemia                                                          | Impaired hypoglycemia awareness                                            | 6.5  |
|                                                                                   | Severe\* hypoglycemia during last 4 weeks                                  | 5    |
|                                                                                   | Hypoglycemia more than once daily                                          | 4    |
|                                                                                   | 6–7 episodes of hypoglycemia/week                                          | 3    |
|                                                                                   | 3–5 episodes of hypoglycemia/week                                          | 2    |
|                                                                                   | 1–2 episodes of hypoglycemia/week                                          | 1    |
|                                                                                   | Hypoglycemia <1 time per week                                              | 0.5  |
|                                                                                   | No hypoglycemia in last 4 weeks                                            | 0    |
| 6. Level of A1C                                                                   | >9% (>75 mmol/mol)                                                         | 1    |
|                                                                                   | 7.5–9% (58–75 mmol/mol)                                                    | 0.5  |
|                                                                                   | <7.5% (<58 mmol/mol)                                                       | 0    |
| 7. Glucose monitoring                                                             | Not done                                                                   | 2    |
|                                                                                   | Done suboptimally                                                          | 1    |
|                                                                                   | Done as indicated                                                          | 0    |

Treatment before and after fasting should be culturally sensitive and individualized. Specific recommendations for diabetes management during religious fasting in different faiths are available (224,225). In general, for people planning to fast for long hours and multiple consecutive days, choice of treatment should prioritize drugs with low hypoglycemia risk. Hypoglycemia risk while fasting in people using insulin, sulfonylureas, and other insulin secretagogues is higher than that for individuals treated with other types of diabetes medications (224). The safety of SGLT2 inhibitors was assessed in several studies during Ramadan fasting. These studies did not show significant change in kidney function, dehydration rates, or ketosis (232). Guidelines do not advise any change in SGLT2 inhibitor dose during fasting; however, they advise against initiating SGLT2 inhibitors close to the start of fasting days to avoid excessive thirst (224). Table 5.4 summarizes the effect of fasting on different treatment options and the possible change in doses or timing for people with diabetes.

Technology could be an important tool to enhance safety during fasting. Several studies have investigated the use of monitoring technology during Ramadan fasting (e.g., flash glucose monitoring and CGM) and confirmed that these tools are able to support high-risk groups wishing to fast, especially if combined with Ramadan-focused education (232–234).

Continued on p. S102



    S102  Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being    Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

       Table 5.3—Continued                                                                                           PHYSICAL ACTIVITY
       Fasting risk element                                   Risk score                                              Recommendations
       11. Cognitive function, frailty, and age                                                                       5.34 Evaluate baseline physical      activ-
            Impaired cognitive function                          6.5                                                  ity and sedentary time for all people
            Advanced frailty                                     6.5                                                  with diabetes     and those at risk for
            Mild to moderate frailty                              4                                                   diabetes. For     people who do         not
            Age >70 years with no home support                    1                                                   meet activity guidelines, encourage an

       12.  Normal cognitive function and no frailty              0                                                   increase  in physical   activities    above
            Physical labor                                                                                            baseline with the goal of meeting ac-
            High intensity                                        4                                                   tivity guidelines. B Counsel that pro-
            Moderate intensity                                    2                                                   longed sitting    should be interrupted
            Low intensity                                         0                                                   at least every 30        min for blood glu-
       13. Fasting-focused education                                                                                  cose and other beneﬁts. C
            Yes                                                   0                                                   5.35 Counsel children and adolescents

       14.  No                                                    1                                                   with type 1 diabetes C or type 2 di-
            Fasting hours                                                                                             abetes   B to    engage in 60 min/day
            ≥16 h                                                 1                                                   or  more of   moderate- or  vigorous-in-
            <16 h                                                 0                                                   tensity  aerobic  activity, with muscle-
       Based on risk scoring, people with diabetes can be categorized as having:                                      strengthening    and  bone-strengthen-
            Score 0–3.0: low risk, fasting is probably safe                                                           ing activities at  least       3 days/week,
            Score 3.5–6.0: moderate risk, fasting safety is uncertain                                                 and to limit the amount of time being

AID, Score >6.0: high risk, fasting is probably unsafe
     automated insulin delivery; CGM, continuous glucose monitoring; DKA, diabetic ketoaci-
dosis; eGFR, estimated     glomerular ﬁltration       rate; HHS, hyperglycemic hyperosmolar state;
LADA, latent autoimmune diabetes in adults (type 1 diabetes). *Hypoglycemia requiring as-
sistance    for treatment. **Macrovascular  disease         includes cardiac, cerebral, or peripheral.
Adapted from Hassanein et al. (224).

spent sedentary, including recreational
screen time. C
5.36 Counsel most adults with type 1
diabetes C and type 2 diabetes         B to

engage in 150 min or more of mod-
erate- to    vigorous-intensity     aerobic

    has been associated                 with low rates of     uncertain access to adequate food (238).                activity per week, spread over at least
    hypoglycemia during fasting in                 people     In   2023, 13.5% of Americans were food                 3 days/week, with no more than 2 con-
    with type 1 diabetes. Diabetes technol-                   insecure (238), and food insecurity affects             secutive days  without   activity. Shorter
    ogies should be considered as a useful                    16% of adults with diabetes compared                    durations (minimum 75 min/week) of
    adjunct to risk calculation and/or nutri-                 with 9% of adults without diabetes (239).               vigorous-intensity   or interval   training
    tion planning and education during reli-                  There is a complex bidirectional associ-                may be sufﬁcient for more physically
    gious     fasting  for           people with diabetes     ation between food insecurity and co-                   ﬁt individuals.
    (224).                                                    occurring diabetes. Food security screen-               5.37 Counsel adults with type 1 diabe-
                                                              ing   should  happen    at all   levels of      the     tes C and type 2 diabetes B to engage
    Monitoring Nutrition Intake                               health care system. Any member of the                   in 2–3 sessions/week of resistance ex-
    It is           important to monitor for adequate         health care team can screen for food                    ercise on nonconsecutive days.
    nutritional intake to prevent nutrient deﬁ-               insecurity    using    the Hunger   Vital Sign.                 5.38 Counsel most older adults with
    ciencies, especially in people with diabe-                Households are considered at risk if they                   diabetes to engage in ﬂexibility train-
    tes   who are seeking intentional              weight     answer either or       both of   the  following         ing and balance training         2–3 times/
    loss. Health care professionals should advise             statements as “often true” or “sometimes                week. C
    a healthy, whole foods–based eating pattern               true” (compared with “never true”) (240):               5.39 Counsel all people with diabe-
    with sufﬁcient             micro- and macronutrients,                                                             tes who are   treated       with    obesity
    protein,          ﬁber, and ﬂuid intake alongside              “Within the past 12 months, we wor-                 pharmacotherapy or metabolic sur-
    regular       resistance    training to      maintain                     ried whether our food would run out     gery    that meeting physical      activity
    lean body mass and prevent nutritional                         before we got money to buy more.”                  recommendations, in particular     mus-
    deﬁciencies (235,236). Referral to an RDN                      “Within the past 12 months, the food               cle-strengthening    exercises,  may be
    is also important to optimize nutrition sta-                   we bought just     didn’t   last, and   we         beneﬁcial    for  maintaining lean body
    tus, especially if they have experience con-                   didn’t have money to get more.”                    mass. C
    ducting a nutrition-focused physical exam                      If      screening is positive for food insecu-
    (235,237)      (see section   8,     “Obesity and         rity,   efforts should  be  made to refer  to          Physical  activity includes  all movement
    Weight         Management     for    the      Preven-     appropriate programs and resources. See                that increases energy use,     and exercise
    tion and Treatment of Diabetes”).                         section 1, “Improving Care and Promoting               is a more speciﬁc form of physical activ-
                                                              Health in Populations,” for more informa-              ity that  is  structured and   designed   to
    Food Insecurity and Access                                tion    concerning  the    social  determinants        improve   physical  ﬁtness.    Both physical
    Food insecurity is a household-level eco-                 of health and related issues like food in-             activity and  exercise   demonstrate  nu-
    nomic and social condition of limited or                  security and access.                                   merous beneﬁts for people with and at

    2026  January
          29 on  guest
                    by     http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf
                           from   Downloaded



diabetesjournals.org/care
# Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being

# S103

# Table 5.4—Changes in medications during fasting

| Medication name                                                                                | Risk of hypoglycemia | Timing                                                                                                                                                   | Total daily dose                                                                                                                   |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Metformin, SGLT2 inhibitor, DPP-4 inhibitor, GLP-1 receptor agonist, acarbose, or pioglitazone | Low                  | If once daily, then take at main mealtime. If twice daily, then split dose between the two meals. If once weekly, no change of time.                     | No change                                                                                                                          |
| New generation of sulfonylurea (glimepiride and gliclazide)                                    | Low to moderate      | If once daily, then take at main mealtime. If twice daily, then split dose between the two meals.                                                        | Reduce dose if glucose levels are within individualized goal range and if no hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia is present at baseline. |
| Older generation of sulfonylurea (glyburide)                                                   | Moderate to high     | Take at time of main meal                                                                                                                                | Replace with newer-generation sulfonylurea or reduce dose by 50%.                                                                  |
| Basal insulin                                                                                  | Moderate to high     | For longer-acting basal analogs (glargine 300 or degludec), no need to change timing. For other basal insulins, take at beginning of breaking fast meal. | Choose the insulin with lower risk of hypoglycemia among the class. Reduce dose by 25–35% if not well managed.                     |
| Prandial insulin                                                                               | High                 | At mealtime                                                                                                                                              | Reduce dose of insulin for the meal followed by fasting (35–50%). For other meals, insulin dose should match carbohydrate intake.  |
| Mixed insulin and insulin coformulations                                                       | High                 | If once daily, then take at main mealtime. If twice daily, then split dose between the two meals.                                                        | Reduce dose of insulin for the meal followed by fasting (35–50%). For other meals, no change of dose.                              |

DPP-4, dipeptidyl peptidase 4; GLP-1, glucagon-like peptide 1; SGLT2, sodium–glucose cotransporter 2.

Risk for diabetes and are important for the diabetes management plan. Higher levels of total and leisure-time physical activity are associated with a lower risk of cardiovascular and overall mortality in people with diabetes (241,242). Leisure-time activity may also help prevent type 2 diabetes (243) and reduce A1C in those with diabetes (244). Moreover, data from the DPPOS noted that self-reported habitual physical activity is positively associated with 6-min walking distance, which suggests long-term benefits of regular physical activity engagement (245). Exercise and physical activity have favorable effects on glycemia, cardiovascular risk factors, weight loss, body composition, mobility, mortality, psychosocial well-being, and physical function in people with diabetes (242,246–254).

Given the benefits of physical activity and exercise for people with diabetes, they should be recommended and prescribed to all individuals who are at risk for or have diabetes as part of the diabetes care plan, unless otherwise contraindicated. Specific recommendations and precautions on the type of activity will vary by diabetes type, age, and presence of complications. Health care professionals should support people with diabetes to set stepwise goals toward meeting the recommended exercise volume. As individuals intensify their exercise program, medical monitoring may be indicated to ensure safety and evaluate the effects on glycemic management. Exercise and activity plans should be tailored to meet the specific needs of each individual (255), and different strategies can be used to increase engagement (256,257).

Individuals with diabetes may experience obstacles to exercise, such as not having enough time or inadequate access to equipment or education for safe participation. The care team should help identify these obstacles and individualize approaches to improve long-term adoption of physical activity and exercise as a key part of the diabetes care plan. Furthermore, activity plans can be modified to best suit the fitness level of the individual, which may vary due to ability level or complications. The plan might also need to be modified over time due to changes in health status, goals, or preferences or if the therapeutic response reaches a plateau.

In people with type 2 diabetes, exercise training has demonstrated multiple cardiometabolic improvements, including but not limited to improved glycemia, cardiovascular function, and lipid profiles (259,260). A meta-analysis primarily consisting of aerobic training studies revealed that structured exercise interventions of at least 8 weeks have been shown to lower A1C by 0.66% in people with type 2 diabetes, even without a significant change in BMI (247). Data also suggest that combining aerobic and resistance exercise may provide greater glycemic benefits compared with performing either mode of exercise alone (260).

In people with type 1 diabetes, the data for improving A1C are somewhat unclear (261,262). Interestingly, adding resistance training to an exercise plan for adults with type 1 diabetes who were...

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf from Downloaded



S104  Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being    Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

already aerobically active did not impact glycemia, even with improvements in waist circumference and strength (263). Real-world data from the Type 1 Diabetes and Exercise Initiative (T1DEXI) show that aerobic exercise reduces glycemia after an acute exercise session compared with high-intensity interval exercise and resistance exercise; however, all three modes of exercise improve time in range over a 24-h period (264). Furthermore, meeting daily step count of ∼7,000–10,000 steps/day may support marginal improvements in time in range and reduced insulin requirements (265). Though there may be some benefits in glycemic response to exercise, this variability should be taken into consideration when recommending the type, intensity, and duration of exercise and insulin adjustments for a given individual with type 1 diabetes to prevent hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia (266,267).

Individuals of childbearing potential with preexisting diabetes, particularly type 2 diabetes, and those at risk for or presenting with gestational diabetes mellitus should be encouraged to engage in regular moderate-intensity physical activity prior to and during their pregnancies, as tolerated (255). Regular exercise can reduce the odds of developing gestational diabetes mellitus by nearly 40% (268), and acute and long-term prenatal exercise can positively impact glycemia, with a larger effect noted in people with diabetes (269). For more information, see section 15, “Management of Diabetes in Pregnancy.”

# Frequency and Type of Physical Activity

A comprehensive physical activity and exercise plan should encompass multiple modes of activities, including aerobic, resistance, flexibility, balance, and leisure-time activities. Each activity type offers unique benefits for diabetes management, overall health, and quality of life. Age, previous physical activity experiences, fitness level, and goals should be considered when discussing physical activity and exercise plans. For more specific guidance, see the ADA position statement “Physical Activity/Exercise and Diabetes” (255).

# Aerobic Activity

Aerobic activities encompass prolonged rhythmic activities using large muscle groups, such as walking, running, and cycling (255), and provide multiple cardiometabolic benefits for people with diabetes (241,247,259,260,292). Adults with diabetes are encouraged to engage in 150 min or more of moderate- to vigorous-intensity aerobic activity weekly (254,255). Aerobic activity bouts should last at least 10 min, with the goal of ∼30 min/day or more most days of the week to accumulate at least 150 min per week (e.g., 30 min/day, 5 days per week). Daily exercise, or at least not allowing more than 2 days to elapse between exercise sessions, is recommended to decrease insulin resistance.

# Exercise for Children and Adolescents

Similar to children and adolescents in general, children and adolescents with diabetes or who are at risk for diabetes should be encouraged to engage in regular physical activity, including at least 60 min of moderate-to-vigorous aerobic activity every day and muscle- and bone-strengthening activities at least 3 days per week to support development and health.

2026  January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf from Downloaded



diabetesjournals.org/care
# Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being

regardless of diabetes type (293,294). between 65% and 90% VO₂ₚₑₐₖ (a measure of maximal aerobic capacity) or 75% and 95% heart rate peak for 10 s to 4 min with 12 s to 5 min of active or passive recovery. HIIT is a potentially time-efficient modality that can elicit significant physiologic and metabolic adaptations for individuals with type 1 and type 2 diabetes, including improvements in glycemia, β-cell function, central adiposity, and cardiac function (307–310).

When matched for energy expenditure, a 4-month HIIT-style walking program provided greater improvement in glycemia, physical fitness, and body composition compared with a continuous-walking program in people with type 2 diabetes (311). In contrast, a 12-week study in people with type 2 diabetes noted that HIIT cycling and continuous cycling programs, matched for energy expenditure, were not different in efficacy compared with each other or with a nonexercise control group (312). Both cycling protocols demonstrated improvements in aerobic capacity and A1C compared with baseline, but only continuous cycling showed improvements in cardiovascular response and visceral adiposity compared with baseline (312).

Adults with diabetes are encouraged to participate in 2–3 sessions/week of resistance exercise on non-consecutive days (254,255). Although it has been suggested that high-intensity resistance exercise training provides a greater benefit for glycemic management when compared with lower intensities (299), resistance training of any intensity is recommended to improve strength, balance, and the ability to engage in activities of daily living throughout the lifespan.

# Resistance Activity

Resistance activity refers to movements working against an external force for the purpose of improving skeletal muscle strength and size, which typically includes free weight, weight machine, body weight, or resistance band movements to target the major muscle groups. Resistance training can improve glycemia, strength, hypertrophy, bone mineral density, and cardiometabolic health (296–298), and higher relative muscle mass is associated with better insulin sensitivity and lower diabetes risk (298).

Engagement in exercise programs prior to and after metabolic surgery may support muscle mass and strength (315,316), reduce weight recurrence and promote better weight maintenance (317,318), and improve insulin sensitivity (319). Even modest increases in physical activity after metabolic surgery may contribute to greater fat mass loss and better retention of skeletal muscle mass (320).

Though aerobic exercise may be beneficial, combined aerobic and resistance training may produce greater weight loss and better improvements in functional capacity, muscle mass, and strength compared with aerobic exercise alone (316). In addition to metabolic surgery, combining obesity pharmacotherapy with exercise programs may lead to some synergistic benefits. Combination of structured exercise training plus a GLP-1 RA has demonstrated improvements in β-cell function, glucose tolerance, and insulin sensitivity (321,322), reductions in abdominal adiposity and inflammation (323), and more favorable effects on body composition such as fat mass loss, fat-free mass maintenance, and reduced waist circumference (321–324).

Conversely, a 16-week RCT reported that combined exercise training and GLP-1 RA therapy did not show synergistic benefits on cardiac function but rather showed potential inhibitory effects on left ventricular diastolic function in people with type 2 diabetes (325). However, this was a predefined sub-study that was not designed to detect changes in myocardial function. As data in this area for people with diabetes are emerging, more studies of longer duration and with newer-generation medications are needed.

# Flexibility and Balance Activities

Flexibility and balance activities serve to improve the range of motion around joints and reduce the risk of falls, respectively (254,255). Older adults with diabetes are encouraged to participate in flexibility and balance training 2–3 times/week. A variety of activities, including yoga, tai chi, and resistance training, can significantly improve A1C, flexibility, muscle strength, balance, and gait (254,300–304). Older adults in particular can benefit from flexibility and resistance training for maintenance of range of motion, strength, and balance (255,305,306) (Fig. 5.2).

# Other Considerations

# Exercise During Obesity Treatment

As many people with diabetes and obesity are often treated with obesity pharmacotherapy or metabolic surgery, additional emphasis on meeting physical activity guidelines, particularly muscle-strengthening activities, is warranted. Both obesity pharmacotherapy and metabolic surgery lead to...

# Hypoglycemia

For individuals taking insulin and/or insulin secretagogues, physical activity may cause hypoglycemia if the medication dose or carbohydrate consumption is not adjusted for the exercise session and postbout effect on glucose.

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf from Downloaded



S106  Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being    Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

# Importance of 24-hour physical behaviors for type 2 diabetes

# SITTING/BREAKING UP PROLONGED SITTING

- Limit sitting. Breaking up prolonged sitting (at least every 30 min) with short regular bouts of slow walking or simple resistance exercises can improve glucose metabolism.

# SWEATING (MODERATE-TO-VIGOROUS ACTIVITY)

- Encourage ≥150 min/week of moderate-intensity physical activity (i.e., uses large muscle groups, rhythmic in nature) OR ≥75 min/week vigorous-intensity activity spread over ≥3 days/week, with no more than 2 consecutive days of inactivity. Supplement with two to three resistance, flexibility, and/or balance sessions.
- As little as 30 min/week of moderate-intensity physical activity improves metabolic profiles.

# STEPPING

- An increase of only 500 steps/day is associated with 2-9% decreased risk of cardiovascular morbidity and all-cause mortality.
- A 5- to 6-min brisk-intensity walk per day equates to ~4 years' greater life expectancy.

# SLEEP

- Aim for consistent, uninterrupted sleep, even on weekends.
- Quantity - Long (>8 h) and short (&#x3C;6 h) sleep durations negatively impact A1C.
- Quality - Irregular sleep results in poorer glycemic levels, likely influenced by the increased prevalence of insomnia, obstructive sleep apnea, and restless leg syndrome in people with type 2 diabetes.
- Chronotype - Evening chronotypes (i.e., night owl: go to bed late and get up late) may be more susceptible to inactivity and poorer glycemic levels than morning chronotypes (i.e., early bird: go to bed early and get up early).

# PHYSICAL FUNCTION

- Physical function/frailty/sarcopenia: The frailty phenotype in type 2 diabetes is unique, often encompassing obesity alongside physical frailty, at an earlier age. The ability of people with type 2 diabetes to undertake simple functional exercises in middle-age is similar to that in those over a decade older.

| Glucose/insulin | Blood pressure | A1C | Lipids | Physical function | Depression | Quality of life |
| --------------- | -------------- | --- | ------ | ----------------- | ---------- | --------------- |
|                |               |    |        |                  |           |                |
|                |               |    |        |                  |           |                |
|                |               |    |        |                  |           |                |
|                |               |    |        |                  |           |                |
|                |               |    |        |                  |           |                |
|                |               |    |        |                  |           |                |
|                |               |    |        |                  |           |                |

# IMPACT OF PHYSICAL BEHAVIORS ON CARDIOMETABOLIC HEALTH IN PEOPLE WITH TYPE 2 DIABETES

- Higher levels of improvement (physical function, quality of life)
- Lower levels of improvement (glucose/insulin, blood pressure, A1C, lipids, depression)
- No data available

Green arrows = strong evidence

Yellow arrows = medium-strength evidence

Red arrows = limited evidence

Figure 5.2—Importance of 24-h physical behaviors for type 2 diabetes. Adapted from Davies et al. (633).

Pre-exercise glucose levels are &#x3C;90 mg/dL (&#x3C;5.0 mmol/L), depending on whether they are able to lower insulin doses during the workout (such as with an insulin pump or reduced pre-exercise insulin dosage), the time of day exercise is done, and the intensity and duration of the activity (267). Due to heterogeneity of glycemic responses to physical activity, the approach to carbohydrate intake and medication adjustments around the activity or exercise session should be individualized.

2026  January 29 on guest http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf from Downloaded



diabetesjournals.org/care
# Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being

guidance on carbohydrate intake and medication considerations can be found in the ADA position statement “Physical Activity/Exercise and Diabetes” (255). In some people with diabetes, hypoglycemia after exercise may occur and last for several hours due to increased insulin sensitivity. Hypoglycemia is not common in those who are not treated with insulin or insulin secretagogues, and no routine preventive measures for hypoglycemia are usually advised in these cases. Intense activities, such as HIIT, may actually raise glucose levels instead of lowering them, especially if pre-exercise glucose is elevated (267). Because of variation in glycemic response to exercise, people with diabetes should be taught to check blood glucose levels and/or monitor CGM values during and after exercise, how to understand the effect of exercise on glucose, about the potential prolonged effects (depending on intensity and duration), and how to manage and use AID technology around and during the time of exercise (266,326). See section 6, “Glycemic Goals, Hypoglycemia, and Hyperglycemic Crises,” for more information on hypoglycemia prevention and management.

# Exercise in the Presence of Complications

See section 11, “Chronic Kidney Disease and Risk Management,” and section 12, “Retinopathy, Neuropathy, and Foot Care,” for more information on these long-term complications. A meta-analysis demonstrated that high versus low levels of physical activity were associated with lower CVD incidence and mortality (summary risk ratio 0.84 [95% CI 0.77–0.92], n = 7, and 0.62 [0.55–0.69], n = 11) and fewer microvascular complications (0.76 [0.67–0.86], n = 8). Dose-response meta-analyses showed that physical activity was associated with lower risk of diabetes-related complications even at lower activity levels (327).

# Retinopathy

If proliferative diabetic retinopathy or severe nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy is present, then vigorous-intensity aerobic or resistance exercise may be contraindicated because of the risk of triggering vitreous hemorrhage or retinal detachment (328). Consultation with an ophthalmologist prior to engaging in an intense exercise plan may be appropriate.

# Peripheral Neuropathy

Decreased pain sensation and a higher pain threshold in the extremities can result in an increased risk of skin breakdown, infection, and Charcot joint destruction with some forms of exercise. Therefore, a thorough assessment should be done to ensure that neuropathy does not alter kinesthetic or proprioceptive sensation during physical activity, particularly in those with more severe neuropathy. Moderate-intensity walking may not lead to an increased risk of foot ulcers or reulceration in those with peripheral neuropathy who use proper footwear (329,330). In addition, 150 min/week of moderate exercise improved outcomes in people with prediabetic neuropathy (331). All individuals with peripheral neuropathy should wear proper footwear and examine their feet daily to detect lesions early. Anyone with a foot injury or open sore should be restricted to non–weight-bearing activities.

# Autonomic Neuropathy

Autonomic neuropathy can increase the risk of exercise-induced injury or adverse events through decreased cardiac responsiveness to exercise, postural hypotension, impaired thermoregulation, impaired night vision due to impaired papillary reaction, and greater susceptibility to hypoglycemia (332). Cardiovascular autonomic neuropathy is also an independent risk factor for cardiovascular death and silent myocardial ischemia (333). Therefore, individuals with diabetic autonomic neuropathy should undergo cardiac investigation before beginning physical activity more intense than that to which they are accustomed.

# Chronic Kidney Disease

Physical activity can acutely increase urinary albumin excretion. However, there is no evidence that vigorous-intensity exercise accelerates the rate of progression of CKD, and there appears to be no need for specific exercise restrictions for people with CKD in general (328).

# Smoking Cessation: Tobacco, E-Cigarettes, and Cannabis

Recommendations

- 5.40 Ask people with diabetes routinely about the use of tobacco or vape products. A Advise complete avoidance of tobacco and vaping. A For individuals who use these products, provide or refer for combination treatment consisting of tobacco and/or vape product(s) cessation counseling and pharmacologic therapy. A

The World Health Organization recommends both counseling and pharmacologic therapy to assist with smoking cessation in nonpregnant adults (341). A secondary data analysis of the Evaluating Adverse Events in a Global Smoking Cessation Study (EAGLES), a randomized, double-blind, triple-dummy, placebo-controlled and active-controlled trial, found varenicline to be the most efficacious pharmacotherapy for people with diabetes compared.

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf from Downloaded




# Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being

# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

with placebo (342). These findings support the American Thoracic Society 2020 guideline recommending varenicline as a first-line pharmacotherapy for tobacco dependence (343). However, despite the effectiveness of pharmacologic therapy and counseling, more than two-thirds of people trying to quit do not receive treatment following evidence-based guidelines (338).

Weight gain after smoking cessation is a concern for diabetes management and risk for new onset of disease (344). While postcessation weight gain is an identified issue, studies have found that an average weight gain of 3–5 kg does not necessarily persist long term or diminish the substantial cardiovascular benefit realized from smoking cessation (337). A systematic review and meta-analysis comparing those who quit smoking to those who smoke stratified by postcessation weight gain found smoking cessation lowered the risk of CVD and all-cause mortality regardless of postcessation weight gain (345). Another systematic review and meta-analysis of interventions to prevent weight gain following smoking cessation identified several approaches that may modestly reduce weight gain, including personalized weight management programs, exercise programs, nicotine replacement therapy, and fluoxetine (346).

Emerging research suggests GLP-1 RAs may improve smoking cessation, reduce cravings and withdrawal symptoms, and decrease weight gain in adults with overweight and/or prediabetes (347). More clinical trials are needed to examine the efficacy of GLP-1 RAs and other incretin pharmacotherapies as a possible treatment for tobacco use disorders and preventing weight gain postcessation.

In recent years, there has been an increase in the use and availability of multiple noncigarette nicotine products. The impact of these products on diabetes is less well established than that of combustible cigarettes. Smokeless tobacco products, such as dip and chew, pose an increased risk for CVD and oral cancer (348,349). Vaping with e-cigarettes and related devices is associated with cannabis hyperemesis syndrome, which is marked by severe nausea, abdominal pain, and vomiting (361–363). Recommended diagnostic criteria for hyperglycemic ketosis cannabis hyperemesis syndrome include a blood glucose of ≥250 mg/dL, an anion gap of >10, a serum β-hydroxybutyrate level of >0.6 mmol/L, a pH level of ≥7.4, and a bicarbonate level of ≥15 mmol/L (363).

Health care professionals should consider the increased availability and use of tobacco and cannabis products, highlighting the importance of assessing use, educating individuals about the associated risks, and providing support for cessation. If people are using e-cigarettes for cessation, they should be advised to avoid using both combustible and electronic cigarettes, and if only using e-cigarettes, they should be advised to discontinue those too (340).

# SUPPORTING POSITIVE HEALTH BEHAVIORS

Given the impact on glycemic outcomes and risk for future complications (364,365), diabetes care professionals should support health-promoting behaviors (preventive, treatment, and maintenance), including glucose monitoring, taking medications, using diabetes technologies, engaging in physical activity, and healthy eating. Evidence-based behavioral strategies and multicomponent interventions, including motivational interviewing (366,367), activation (368), goal setting and action planning (367,369,370), problem-solving (8,369), tracking or self-monitoring health behaviors with or without feedback from a health care professional (367,369,370), and facilitating opportunities for social support (367,369,370), help people with diabetes and their caregivers develop health behavior routines and overcome barriers to self-management.

While behavioral economics approaches (e.g., financial incentives, social norms messaging) show mixed results, they tend to enhance motivation and demonstrate short-term (i.e., &#x3C;6 months) benefits for behavior change (371). Multicomponent interventions are the most effective for improving behavior and glycemic outcomes (370,372), particularly in children and adolescents with diabetes when delivered as family-based or multisystem behavioral interventions (373). Adapting and tailoring behavior change strategies to the characteristics and needs of individuals and populations is essential (374,375). These health behavior change strategies can be delivered by behavioral health professionals, certified DCES, qualified community health workers (369), or other trained health care professionals (376,377). They can also be implemented via digital health tools (370,377,378). To deliver these strategies effectively, diabetes care professionals should receive training in evidence-based methods such as motivational interviewing (379).

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf from Downloaded





diabetesjournals.org/care
# Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being

# PSYCHOSOCIAL CARE

# Recommendations

5.42 Provide psychosocial care to all people with diabetes as part of routine medical care delivered by trained health care professionals using a collaborative, person-centered, culturally informed approach.

5.43 Implement screening protocols for psychosocial concerns, preferably using age-appropriate standardized and validated tools. Screen at least annually or when there is a change in health status, treatment, or life circumstances.

5.44 Refer to behavioral health professionals or other trained health care professionals, ideally those with experience in diabetes, for further assessment and treatment of psychosocial concerns as indicated.

Please refer to the ADA position statement “Psychosocial Care for People With Diabetes” for a list of assessment tools and additional details (1) and the ADA Behavioral Health Toolkit for assessment questionnaires and surveys (professional.diabetes.org/meetings/behavioral-health-toolkit).

Throughout the Standards of Care, the broad term “behavioral health” is used to encompass both 1) health behavior engagement and relevant factors and 2) behavioral health concerns care related to living with diabetes.

Psychosocial well-being is a critical component of diabetes care and self-management. Psychosocial factors, including environmental, social, family, behavioral, emotional, religious, and SDOH factors, influence living with diabetes and the ability to achieve optimal health outcomes. People with diabetes and their families or caregivers face complex, multifaceted challenges integrating diabetes care into daily life (380).

Clinically significant behavioral health diagnoses are considerably more prevalent in people with diabetes than in those without diabetes (381,382). Psychological and social problems can interfere with a person’s (383–385) or family’s (385) ability to perform diabetes care tasks and negatively affect health status. Furthermore, these conditions are associated with reduced short-term (i.e., &#x3C;6 months) glycemic stability and increased mortality risk (382,386). Therefore, addressing both clinical and subclinical concerns is essential.

# Screening

Health care teams and clinical practices should develop and implement psychosocial screening protocols to ensure routine monitoring of psychosocial well-being and to identify potential concerns among people with diabetes, following published guidance and recommendations (398,399).

Topics to screen for may include, but are not limited to, attitudes about diabetes, expectations for treatment and outcomes, and whether there have been persistent changes in mood during the past 2 weeks or since the individual’s last appointment.

Diabetes care professionals should also ask whether there are new or different barriers to treatment and self-management, such as feeling overwhelmed or stressed.

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf from Downloaded



S110  Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being    Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

by having diabetes (see DIABETES DISTRESS, be- low), changes in ﬁnances, or competing medical demands (e.g., the diagnosis of a co-occurring condition).

# Psychological Assessment and Treatment

When psychosocial concerns are identified and cannot be addressed adequately in routine diabetes care, referral to a qualified behavioral health professional, preferably one specializing in diabetes, should be made for comprehensive evaluation, diagnosis, and treatment (377,396,397). Indications for referrals may include positive screening for diabetes distress, depression, anxiety, disordered eating, or cognitive dysfunction (see Table 5.5 for a complete list). Incorporating psychosocial assessment and treatment into routine care is preferable to waiting for a specific problem or deterioration in glycemic or psychological status to occur (38,385). Health care professionals should identify and refer to behavioral health professionals knowledgeable about diabetes and psychosocial care. The ADA provides a list of behavioral health professionals who have specialized expertise or who have received education about psychosocial and behavioral issues related to diabetes in the ADA Mental Health Professional Directory (professional.diabetes.org/ada-mental-health-provider-directory). Ideally, behavioral health professionals should be embedded in diabetes care settings. Given limited behavioral health resources, other trained health care professionals may also provide this specialized psychosocial care (389,394,410). Although some health care professionals may not feel qualified to treat psychosocial concerns (411), strengthening the relationship between a person with diabetes and the health care professional may increase referral acceptance.

Collaborative care interventions and a team approach have demonstrated efficacy in diabetes self-management, depression outcomes, and psychosocial functioning (6,7). The ADA provides resources for a range of health professionals to support behavioral health in people with diabetes at professional.diabetes.org/meetings/behavioral-health-toolkit.

# Diabetes Distress

Diabetes distress is common and refers to the emotional burdens and worries associated with living with and managing a demanding chronic condition (421,422). Diabetes distress is distinct from depression and anxiety and has unique relationships with glycemia and other outcomes (423,424) (Tables 5.6 and 5.7). The constant behavioral demands of diabetes self-management (taking medications, monitoring glucose levels, moderating food intake, and participating in physical activity) and the potential or actual disease progression are associated with increased diabetes distress (425,426). In individuals with type 2 diabetes, prevalence rates of diabetes distress exceed 60% (426). Parents of children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes also experience diabetes distress, which is associated with greater family conflict and reduced self-management behaviors (428). Among adults, diabetes distress negatively affects medication-taking behaviors and is linked to elevated A1C, lower self-efficacy, and less optimal eating and exercise behaviors (429). In addition, diabetes distress frequently co-occurs with symptoms of anxiety, depression, and reduced health-related quality of life (430). Importantly, the experience of stigma related to living with diabetes may further exacerbate diabetes distress (431,432).

Diabetes distress should be routinely monitored (433) using diabetes-specific validated measures appropriate for each person or population (e.g., age and diabetes type) (1). Once diabetes distress is identified, it should be acknowledged and addressed (434). Addressing diabetes distress in routine diabetes care involves initiating a conversation about feelings and beliefs in a respectful, sensitive, and direct manner (421). In practice, this involves creating a space for emotional disclosure, validating the emotional aspects of diabetes, and linking emotions to self-management behaviors. Health care professionals can introduce brief coping strategies (e.g., values affirmation, mindful breathing, cognitive reframing) and highlight past successes to reinforce resilience. When diabetes distress cannot be addressed in routine diabetes care, referral for follow-up care is recommended (397), such as DSMES, to address distressing areas of diabetes management that may also be affecting self-care; a behavioral intervention from a qualified behavioral health professional, ideally one with expertise in diabetes; and/or an intervention from another trained health care professional (421).

Successful evidence-based approaches include cognitive behavioral (392,396,412) and mindfulness-based therapies (413). Several intervention strategies have been shown to reduce diabetes distress and, to a lesser degree, improve glycemic outcomes. These include educational, psychological, and health behavior change approaches such as DSMES, CBT, mindfulness-based therapies, motivational interviewing, and others (392,412,435–439). In addition, interventions delivered via telephone, smartphone applications, video visits, and/or self-help modalities can be effective in reducing diabetes distress (416,440–442). DSMES has been shown to reduce diabetes distress (6,443) and may benefit A1C.

2026  January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf Downloaded



diabetesjournals.org/care
# Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being

S111

# Table 5.5—Situations that warrant referral of a person with diabetes to a qualified behavioral health professional for evaluation and treatment

- A positive screen on a validated screening tool for depressive symptoms, diabetes distress, anxiety, fear of hypoglycemia, suicidality, or cognitive impairment
- The presence of symptoms or suspicions of disordered eating behavior, an eating disorder, or disrupted patterns of eating
- Intentional omission or underdosing of insulin or noninsulin medication to cause weight loss
- A serious mental illness is suspected
- In children and adolescents and families with behavioral self-care difficulties, repeated hospitalizations for diabetic ketoacidosis, failure to achieve expected developmental milestones, or significant distress
- Low engagement in diabetes self-management behaviors, including declining or impaired ability to perform diabetes self-management behaviors
- Before undergoing metabolic surgery and after surgery, if assessment reveals an ongoing need for adjustment support

when combined with peer support (444). Counseling about expected diabetes distress may be helpful in several contexts, including new diagnosis, changes in treatment, life context, presence of complications, and other stressors (421). A multisite RCT with adults with type 1 diabetes, elevated diabetes distress, and elevated A1C demonstrated clinically meaningful improvements in both outcomes using a combination of group-based diabetes self-management education and emotion-focused skills (441). In adults with type 2 diabetes in the Veterans Affairs system, an RCT found that integrating a single session of mindfulness into DSMES, followed by a booster session and mobile app practice over 24 weeks, significantly reduced diabetes distress compared with DSMES alone (445). An RCT of CBT in adults with type 2 diabetes and elevated symptoms of distress or depression demonstrated improvements in diabetes distress, A1C, and depressive symptoms for up to 1 year (446). Another RCT among individuals with type 1 and type 2 diabetes found mindful self-compassion training increased self-compassion, reduced depression and diabetes distress, and improved A1C (447). In teens with type 1 diabetes, an RCT of a resilience-focused cognitive behavioral and social problem-solving intervention reduced diabetes distress and depressive symptoms for up to 3 years compared with diabetes education, although neither A1C nor self-management behaviors improved over time (415). Lastly, the use of AID systems can also contribute to decreases in diabetes distress among adults with type 1 diabetes and caregivers of children and adolescents; however, evidence of benefit among children and adolescents remains mixed (448,449). A combination of educational, behavioral, and psychological approaches is needed to address distress, depression, and A1C. There are few outcome data on long-term systematic treatment of diabetes distress integrated into routine care. As the burden of diabetes management can vary over time, diabetes distress may fluctuate and may need varying treatment approaches at different life stages and at different levels of diabetes progression. It is important to note that anxiety symptoms may overlap with diabetes distress and/or hyperglycemia symptoms, which can complicate screening practices (434). This highlights the importance of conducting screening for both diabetes distress and anxiety at least annually in people with diabetes, followed by further clinical assessment to ensure accurate identification.

Fear of hypoglycemia is a common diabetes-specific concern (452–454) that can lead to avoidance of glucose-lowering behaviors, such as increasing insulin doses or monitoring frequency. Factors contributing to fear of hypoglycemia in people with diabetes and family members include history of nocturnal hypoglycemia, co-occurring psychological concerns, and sleep disturbances (455). See section 6, “Glycemic Goals, Hypoglycemia, and Hyperglycemic Crises,” for more information about impaired awareness of hypoglycemia and related fear of hypoglycemia. Other common sources of diabetes-related anxiety include not meeting glycemic goals (456), insulin injections or infusion (457), and onset of complications (1). People with diabetes who exhibit excessive diabetes self-management behaviors well beyond what is prescribed or needed to achieve glycemic goals may be experiencing.

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf from Downloaded




S112  Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being    Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

# Increased

mortality +++ ? +++ +++ +++

multiple symptoms of obsessive-compulsive disorder (458). General anxiety is also associated with injection-related anxiety and fear of hypoglycemia (459).

# Decreased

life of +++ +++ ++++++ ? ? (consistent data evidence)

quality psychosocial concerns +++ ++++++ +++ +++ +++

Evidence-based psychosocial interventions for anxiety include collaborative care and CBT. An RCT in adults with type 2 diabetes, depression, and anxiety showed that those randomized to collaborative care were more likely to achieve a clinically significant reduction in anxiety symptoms at 6 and 12 months compared with those receiving usual care (460).

Another RCT of CBT with adults with type 2 diabetes showed a reduction in health anxiety, with CBT accounting for 77% of the reduction in health anxiety at 16 weeks of follow-up; this trial also found decreased depressive symptoms and diabetes distress (461).

# Decreased

behaviors self-care +++ ++++++ ? ++ fair

For individuals with type 1 diabetes, a systematic review and meta-analysis found that using diabetes technologies, specifically real-time CGM, sensor-augmented pumps, and AID, reduced fear of hypoglycemia independent of the reduction of hypoglycemia frequency (462).

Another RCT for young adults with type 1 diabetes found that a CBT-based intervention reduced fear of hypoglycemia by 8.5% compared with control participants and led to increased time in range and improved self-management behaviors over an 8-week period (463).

These findings highlight the need for specialized behavioral interventions with a positive adjunct of diabetes technology delivered by qualified professionals to effectively address hypoglycemia-related anxiety.

# Increased

cholesterol +++ +++ +++ +++ +++

with pressure association Increased ? ? ? ? + studies

# Recommendations

5.48 Screen for depressive symptoms in all people with diabetes at least annually and more frequently among those with a history of depression. B Refer to qualified behavioral health professionals or other health care professionals with experience using evidence-based treatment approaches for depression in collaboration with the diabetes care team.

5.49 Rescreen for depression at diagnosis of complications or when there are significant changes in medical status. B

# Psychosocial

depressive disorders) (insulin, eating, (schizophrenia, mental personality symptoms) (strong omission)

# Table

5.6 Depression( Disordered Cognitive of

Diabetes – – Serious Elevated depressive symptoms and depressive disorders are common among people with diabetes (381,454) (Tables 5.6

2026  January 29 on guest http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf Downloaded




diabetesjournals.org/care
# Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being

Increased mortality data and 5.7), affecting approximately one in four people with type 1 or type 2 diabetes (384,464), and parents of children and adolescents with diabetes (465).

Co-occurring depressive symptoms and diabetes are associated with reduced self-management, elevated A1C (466), and increased CVD and mortality risk (423,467). History of depression, current depression, and antidepressant medication use are also risk factors for the development of type 2 diabetes, particularly in individuals with other risk factors, such as overweight, obesity, and family history of type 2 diabetes (468–470). At least annual depression screening, and more frequent screening for those with a history of depression, is indicated for people with type 1 or type 2 diabetes and gestational diabetes mellitus. Screening is particularly important given that women report higher rates of depression than men (471).

For individuals with type 2 diabetes, the experience of diabetes-related stigma is associated with increased depressive symptoms (432). Importantly, depressive symptoms often overlap with diabetes distress, anxiety symptoms, and hyperglycemia, complicating screening and increasing the risk for false positives (434). Conducting annual screening for depression, anxiety, and diabetes distress will help distinguish overlapping symptoms. Positive findings should be followed by a comprehensive clinical assessment to ensure an accurate diagnosis. In practice, routine monitoring with age-appropriate validated measures (1) can help to identify if referral is warranted (397).

Multisite studies have demonstrated the feasibility of implementing depressive symptom screening protocols in diabetes clinics and have published practical guides for implementation (405,472).

Person-centered integrated care approaches have been shown to improve both depression and glycemic outcomes (5). The behavioral health professional providing treatment for depression should be incorporated into, or collaborate closely with, the diabetes treatment team (473).

Because depressive symptoms may also indicate reduced quality of life due to diabetes burden (also see DIABETES DISTRESS, above), it is important to query origins and exacerbating factors for those symptoms to distinguish between diabetes distress and depression.

RCTs examining pharmacologic treatment, group therapy, psychotherapy, parenting interventions, mindfulness-based approaches, or collaborative care have shown varying degrees of effectiveness.

Table 2026 January 29 on guest by Download from






# Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being

Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

consistently shown improvements in de- and anxiety (494). Eating disorders and physiologic disruption in hunger and sati-

pressive symptoms, with mixed effects on A1C when depression is treated simultaneously with diabetes (5,7,392,474-478). Additionally, psychological interventions, such as CBT, delivered via internet, phone, and self-guided interventions have improved depressive symptoms (475,479,480). Lifestyle interventions targeting nutrition and/or physical activity also demonstrate benefits for depressive symptoms and A1C (251) on their own and when combined with CBT (481-483). Finally, one meta-analysis found that use of GLP-1 RAs led to improvement in depressive symptoms among adults with type 2 diabetes (484), while another meta-analysis did not find significant change in depressive symptoms (485). It is important to note that the medical treatment plan should also be monitored and potentially adjusted in response to reduction in depressive symptoms.

# Disordered Eating Behavior

# Recommendations

- 5.50 Screen for disordered or disrupted eating using validated screening measures. Review the medical treatment plan to identify potential treatment-related effects on hunger/caloric intake.
- 5.51 Reevaluate the treatment plan of people with diabetes who present with symptoms of disordered eating behaviors, an eating disorder, or disrupted patterns of eating, ideally in consultation with a qualified professional.

The estimated prevalence of disordered eating behaviors and diagnosable eating disorders in people with diabetes varies (486-488) (see Tables 5.6 and 5.7). People with type 1 diabetes are at increased risk for eating disorders compared with people without diabetes (489). The median prevalence of insulin restriction for weight control is 15%, with mixed findings on whether the behavior is more prevalent among women than men (489-491). In people with type 2 diabetes, binge eating (excessive food intake with an accompanying sense of loss of control) and night eating syndrome are commonly reported (492). Among those with type 2 diabetes treated with insulin, intentional omission is also frequently reported (493). People with diabetes and diagnosable eating disorders have high rates of co-occurring psychosocial concerns, including diabetes distress, depression, fear of hypoglycemia, and anxiety (494).

Data from the SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth study showed that children and adolescents with type 1 and type 2 diabetes and household food insecurity reported more disordered eating behaviors than those with high food security (500). Diabetes care professionals should monitor for disordered eating behaviors using validated measures. Diabetes-specific measures are recommended to assess for intentional insulin omission and, according to a meta-analysis, show strong associations with A1C (498). For individuals with type 1 diabetes, the Diabetes Eating Problem Survey-Revised (DEPS-R) (501) is recommended to screen for disordered eating behaviors, while the mSCOFF (502), a five-item screening questionnaire, is for eating disorders and includes a question on insulin omission. Any “yes” response should prompt a comprehensive evaluation. For type 2 diabetes, recommended screening measures include the Questionnaire on Eating and Weight Patterns-5 (QEWP-5) (503), the Binge Eating Scale (504), and the Night Eating Questionnaire (505).

Given the complexities of treating disordered eating behaviors and disrupted eating patterns in people with diabetes, interprofessional care teams should include, or closely collaborate with, a health professional trained to identify and treat eating behaviors in individuals with diabetes (506). Key qualifications for such professionals include familiarity with diabetes physiology, weight-related and psychological risk factors for disordered eating behaviors, and treatments for diabetes and disordered eating behaviors. Caution should be taken in labeling individuals with diabetes as having a diagnosable eating disorder, as disordered or disrupted eating patterns are frequently found to be associated with diabetes and its treatment.

The use of incretin therapies, specifically GLP-1 RAs and potentially dual glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) and GLP-1 RAs, may have relevance to the treatment of disrupted or disordered eating (see section 8, “Obesity and Weight Management for the Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes”). These therapies work in the appetite and reward circuitries to modulate food intake, reducing uncontrollable hunger and overeating (514). A systematic review found early evidence for GLP-1 RAs being effective in reducing binge-eating behaviors, and a meta-analysis.



diabetesjournals.org/care
# Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being

S115

# Serious Mental Illness Recommendations

5.52 Provide an increased level of support for people with diabetes and serious mental illness through enhanced monitoring of and assistance with diabetes self-management behaviors. B

5.53 Monitor changes in body weight, glycemia, and lipids in adolescents and adults with diabetes who are prescribed second-generation antipsychotic medications; adjust the treatment plan accordingly, if needed. C

improve the well-being of people with diabetes and serious mental illness (522). Coordinated management of prediabetes or diabetes and serious mental illness is recommended to achieve diabetes treatment goals. The diabetes care team, in collaboration with other care professionals, should work to provide an enhanced level of care and self-management support for people with diabetes and serious mental illness based on individual capacity and needs. Such care may include remote monitoring, health care aides, and diabetes training for family members, community support personnel, and other caregivers. A systematic review and meta-analysis of nonpharmacologic interventions for people with type 2 diabetes and serious mental illness showed significant reductions in psychiatric symptoms, total cholesterol, and LDL cholesterol but not improvements in A1C, triglycerides, or BMI (523). Qualitative research suggests that educational and behavioral interventions provide benefit via group support, accountability, and assistance with applying diabetes knowledge (524).

Type 2 diabetes incidence is 1.5- to 2.5-fold higher in individuals with serious mental illness, particularly schizophrenia and other thought disorders, compared with those without a major mental disorder (516,517) (see Tables 5.6 and 5.7). People with serious mental illness who are treated with antipsychotics and other psychotropic medications should be monitored routinely for prediabetes and type 2 diabetes, as these medications are associated with metabolic dysregulation, including elevated glucose levels, increased weight, BMI, total cholesterol, and LDL cholesterol, as well as decreased HDL cholesterol (518,519). Changes in glycemia, body weight, and lipids should be monitored every 12-16 weeks, unless clinically indicated to be monitored sooner (520). Disordered thinking and judgment can make it difficult to engage in behaviors that reduce risk factors for type 2 diabetes, such as restrained eating for weight management. Further, people with serious mental illness and diabetes frequently experience moderate psychological distress, indicating pervasive intrusion of behavioral health issues into daily functioning (521).

Serious mental illness is often associated with the inability to evaluate and apply information to make judgments about treatment options. For a person with an established diagnosis of a serious mental illness affecting judgment, activities of daily living, and the ability to collaborate with care professionals, the inclusion of a nonmedical caretaker in treatment decision-making is beneficial. This caretaker can assist with care coordination, engagement with self-management behaviors, and participation in social activities to improve the well-being of people with diabetes and serious mental illness (522).

# Cognitive Capacity and Impairment Recommendations

5.54 Monitor cognitive capacity throughout the life span for all individuals with diabetes, particularly in those who have documented cognitive disabilities, those who experience severe hypoglycemia, very young children, and older adults. B

5.55 Consider referral for a formal assessment if cognitive capacity changes or appears to be suboptimal for decision-making and/or behavioral self-management. E

Cognitive capacity refers to attention, memory, logic and reasoning, and auditory and visual processing, all of which are involved in diabetes self-management (525) (see Tables 5.6 and 5.7). Long-term diabetes (type 1 or type 2) is associated with cognitive decline (526,527). In people with type 1 diabetes, cognitive impairment is associated with diabetes-specific factors (e.g., younger age at diagnosis, longer disease duration, more time in glycemic extremes, recurrent DKA, elevated A1C, and presence of microvascular complications), other medical factors (e.g., dyslipidemia, intestinal flora, and poorer sleep quality), and sociodemographic factors (e.g., older age, male sex, lower education) (529-531). Diagnosis of dementia is more prevalent among people with diabetes, both type 1 and type 2 (532).

Executive functioning is an aspect of cognitive capacity that has relevance to diabetes management. Executive functions refer to a set of cognitive processes that enable a person to plan, organize, and execute tasks; regulate emotions; and control impulses. Declines in cognitive capacity affect executive functioning and information processing speed; they are not consistent between people, and evidence is lacking regarding a known course of decline (533). Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, which involves deficits in executive functions, is associated with a twofold increased risk of type 2 diabetes (534). Among children, adolescents, and young adults with type 1 diabetes, lower executive functioning is linked with more self-management difficulties and elevated A1C (535). Conversely, higher self-regulation is associated with improved emotional and diabetes-related functioning (536). Thus, monitoring cognitive capacity among individuals with or at risk for diabetes is recommended, particularly their self-monitoring, symptom recognition, and decision-making, all of which are mediated by executive function (532).

As with other conditions affecting mental capacity (e.g., major psychiatric disorders), the key concern is whether the person can collaborate with the care team to achieve metabolic goals and prevent both short-term and long-term complications (521). When cognitive ability is altered, declining, or absent, a lay care professional should be introduced into the care team to serve as a daily monitor and liaison to the care team (1). Individuals with cognitive impairment may require tailored approaches to DSMES that simplify self-management behaviors and introduce remote monitoring. Children and adolescents will need second-party monitoring (e.g., parents and adult caregivers) until they are developmentally able to evaluate information.

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf from Downloaded



S116  Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being    Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

and make appropriate self-management decisions. Episodes of severe hypoglycemia are independently associated with cognitive decline and are a risk factor for accelerated decline (537). Early-onset type 1 diabetes is associated with long-term deficits in intellectual abilities, especially when accompanied by repeated episodes of severe hypoglycemia (538), and is correlated with elevated A1C and sensor glucose values (539) (see section 14, “Children and Adolescents,” for information on early-onset diabetes and cognitive abilities and the effects of severe hypoglycemia on children’s cognitive and academic performance). For this reason, cognitive capacity should be routinely assessed to determine a person’s ability to maintain and adjust self-management behaviors (e.g., dosing of medications, corrections) and to evaluate the need for caregiver support. If concerns arise, an age-appropriate test of cognitive capacity is recommended (1), with consideration given to the developmental stage; for example, young children who are not expected to self-manage independently or older adults who may require ongoing monitoring.

Importantly, the risk of cognitive decline can be reduced through improved A1C (540). A systematic review and meta-analysis comparing cardioprotective glucose-lowering therapy with control therapy found GLP-1 RAs were associated with a statistically significant reduction in dementia but not SGLT2 inhibitors or pioglitazone (541). Additionally, exercise may be a potential nonpharmacologic treatment pathway for cognitive impairment in older adults with type 2 diabetes (542).

# Sleep Health Recommendations

5.56 Screen for sleep health in people with prediabetes or diabetes and in those at risk for diabetes, including screening for sleep disorders and diabetes-related sleep disruptions. Refer to sleep medicine specialists and/or qualified behavioral health professionals or diabetes care team as indicated.

5.57 Counsel people with diabetes to practice sleep-promoting routines and habits.

The associations between sleep problems and diabetes are complex: sleep fragmentation and hypoxemia activate the sympathetic nervous system, contributing to hyperglycemia, insulin resistance, increased circulating free fatty acids, impaired microcirculation, oxidative stress, and psychological stress (560). A systematic review and meta-analysis found that continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) significantly reduced A1C by 0.24% (561). Another systematic review and meta-analysis compared GLP-1 RAs alone or combined with the same interventions in the control group in adults with obesity, prediabetes, and/or type 2 diabetes. Findings showed that the GLP-1 RAs were more effective in reducing apnea-hypopnea index compared with the control group in the population with type 2 diabetes.

Sleep disturbances are associated with less engagement in diabetes self-management and can interfere with achieving and maintaining glucose levels within the goal range (547,550). In type 1 diabetes, the risk of hypoglycemia poses specific sleep challenges and may require detailed assessment and treatment approaches (564). People with type 1 diabetes and their family members report worries about poor sleep and diabetes self-management needs interfering with sleep (565). Diabetes technology has been described as both helpful and challenging for sleep (565), with the greatest perceived benefits attributed to AID systems (566-568). Given these challenges, screening and treatment of sleep disorders should be considered a part of standardized care for people with type 1 and type 2 diabetes.

Furthermore, people with type 2 diabetes and restless leg syndrome are more likely to experience microvascular and macrovascular complications (555) as well as depression (556). Additionally, sleep education, or sleep hygiene, has been shown to improve sleep quality, reduce A1C, and decrease insulin resistance in adults with type 2 diabetes (574). Diabetes care professionals are encouraged to counsel people with diabetes to use sleep-promoting routines and practices, such as establishing a regular bedtime and rise time, creating a dark, quiet area for sleep with temperature and humidity control, establishing a pre-sleep routine, and putting electronic devices (except diabetes management devices) in silent/off mode, exercising during the day.

2026  January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf from Downloaded



diabetesjournals.org/care
# Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being

avoiding daytime naps, limiting caffeine and nicotine in the evening, avoiding spicy foods at night, and avoiding alcohol before bedtime (575). For people with diabetes who have significant sleep difficulties, referral to sleep specialists to address the medical and behavioral aspects of sleep is recommended, ideally in collaboration with the diabetes care team (Fig. 5.2).

# References

1. Young-Hyman D, de Groot M, Hill-Briggs F, Gonzalez JS, Hood K, Peyrot M. Psychosocial care for people with diabetes: a position statement of the American Diabetes Association. Diabetes Care 2016;39:2126-2140
2. Powers MA, Bardsley JK, Cypress M, et al. Diabetes self-management education and support in adults with type 2 diabetes: a consensus report of the American Diabetes Association, the Association of Diabetes Care &#x26; Education Specialists, the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, the American Academy of Family Physicians, the American Academy of PAs, the American Association of Nurse Practitioners, and the American Pharmacists Association. Diabetes Care 2020;43:1636-1649
3. Speight J, Holmes-Truscott E, Garza M, et al. Bringing an end to diabetes stigma and discrimination: an international consensus statement on evidence and recommendations. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2024;12:61-82
4. Asmat K, Dhamani K, Gul R, Froelicher ES. The effectiveness of patient-centered care vs. usual care in type 2 diabetes self-management: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Front Public Health 2022;10:994766
5. Cooper ZW, O’Shields J, Ali MK, Chwastiak L, Johnson LCM. Effects of integrated care approaches to address co-occurring depression and diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Diabetes Care 2024;47:2291-2304
6. Fisher L, Hessler D, Polonsky WH, et al. T1-REDEEM: a randomized controlled trial to reduce diabetes distress among adults with type 1 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2018;41:1862-1869
7. van der Feltz-Cornelis C, Allen SF, Holt RIG, Roberts R, Nouwen A, Sartorius N. Treatment for comorbid depressive disorder or subthreshold depression in diabetes mellitus: systematic review and meta-analysis. Brain Behav 2021;11:e01981
8. Fitzpatrick SL, Schumann KP, Hill-Briggs F. Problem solving interventions for diabetes self-management and control: a systematic review of the literature. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2013;100:145-161
9. Greenwood DA, Howell F, Scher L, et al. A framework for optimizing technology-enabled diabetes and cardiometabolic care and education: the role of the diabetes care and education specialist. Diabetes Educ 2020;46:315-322
10. Davis J, Fischl AH, Beck J, et al. 2022 National standards for diabetes self-management education and support. Diabetes Care 2022;45:484-494
11. Fitzpatrick SL, Golden SH, Stewart K, et al. Effect of DECIDE (Decision-making Education for Choices In Diabetes Everyday) program delivery modalities on clinical and behavioral outcomes. Health Technol Assess 2020;24:1-232
12. Brunisholz KD, Briot P, Hamilton S, et al. The effects of diabetes self-management education on quality of care and clinical outcomes determined by a diabetes bundle measure. J Multidiscip Healthc 2014;7:533-542
13. Dickinson JK, Guzman SJ, Maryniuk MD, et al. The use of language in diabetes care and education. Diabetes Care 2017;40:1790-1799
14. Woodard L, Amspoker AB, Hundt NE, et al. Comparison of collaborative goal setting with enhanced education for managing diabetes-associated distress and hemoglobin A1c levels: a randomized clinical trial. JAMA Netw Open 2022;5:e229975
15. Cheng L, Sit JWH, Choi K-C, et al. The effects of an empowerment-based self-management intervention on empowerment level, psychological distress, and quality of life in patients with poorly controlled type 2 diabetes: a randomized controlled trial. Int J Nurs Stud 2021;116:103407
16. Okeyo HM, Biddle M, Williams LB. Impact of diabetes self-management education on A1C levels among Black/African Americans: a systematic review. Sci Diabetes Self Manag Care 2024;50:87-95
17. Rutten GEHM, Van Vugt H, de Koning E. Person-centered diabetes care and patient activation in people with type 2 diabetes. BMJ Open Diabetes Res Care 2020;8:e001926
18. Li R, Shrestha SS, Lipman R, et al.; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Diabetes self-management education and training among privately insured persons with newly diagnosed diabetes-United States, 2011-2012. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2014;63:1045-1049
19. Hildebrand JA, Billimek J, Lee J-A, et al. Effect of diabetes self-management education on glycemic control in Latino adults with type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Patient Educ Couns 2020;103:266-275
20. Chrvala CA, Sherr D, Lipman RD. Diabetes self-management education for adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus: a systematic review of the effect on glycemic control. Patient Educ Couns 2016;99:926-943
21. Bekele BB, Negash S, Bogale B, et al. Effect of diabetes self-management education (DSME) on glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) level among patients with T2DM: systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Diabetes Metab Syndr 2021;15:177-185
22. Mendez I, Lundeen EA, Saunders M, Williams A, Saaddine J, Albright A. Diabetes self-management education and association with diabetes self-care and clinical preventive care practices. Sci Diabetes Self Manag Care 2022;48:23-34
23. Odgers-Jewell K, Ball LE, Kelly JT, Isenring EA, Reidlinger DP, Thomas R. Effectiveness of group-based self-management education for individuals with type 2 diabetes: a systematic review with meta-analyses and meta-regression. Diabet Med 2017;34:1027-1039
24. Winkley K, Upsher R, Stahl D, et al. Psychological interventions to improve self-management of type 1 and type 2 diabetes: a systematic review. Health Technol Assess 2020;24:1-232
25. Mannucci E, Giaccari A, Gallo M, et al. Self-management in patients with type 2 diabetes: group-based versus individual education. A systematic review. Diabetes Care 2011;34:1027-1039

January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf from Downloaded




# Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being

# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

systematic review with meta-analysis of randomized clinical care and social needs among patients with type 2 diabetes. J Gen Intern Med 2023;38:38-44

| 69. | Lichtenstein AH, Appel LJ, Vadiveloo M, et al.                                                    | 2021 Dietary guidance to improve cardiovascular health: a scientific statement from the American Heart Association. Circulation 2021;144:e472-e487                                                                                                                                                        |
| --- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 41. | Eberle C, Stichling S.                                                                            | Clinical improvements by telemedicine interventions managing type 1 and type 2 diabetes: systematic meta-review. J Med Internet Res 2021;23:e23244                                                                                                                                                        |
| 42. | Moschonis G, Siopis G, Jung J, et al.; DigiCare4You Consortium.                                   | Effectiveness, reach, uptake, and feasibility of digital health interventions for adults with type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials. Lancet Digit Health 2023;5:e125-e143                                                                                |
| 43. | Anderson A, O’Connell SS, Thomas C, Chimmanamada R.                                               | Telehealth Interventions to Improve Diabetes Management Among Black and Hispanic Patients: a Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. J Racial Ethn Health Disparities 2022;9:2375-2386                                                                                                                       |
| 44. | van Eikenhorst L, Taxis K, van Dijk L, de Gier H.                                                 | Pharmacist-led self-management interventions to improve diabetes outcomes. A systematic literature review and meta-analysis. Front Pharmacol 2017;8:891                                                                                                                                                   |
| 45. | Tshiananga JKT, Kocher S, Weber C, Erny-Albrecht K, Berndt K, Neeser K.                           | The effect of nurse-led diabetes self-management education on glycosylated hemoglobin and cardiovascular risk factors: a meta-analysis. Diabetes Educ 2012;38:108-123                                                                                                                                     |
| 46. | Evert AB, Dennison M, Gardner CD, et al.                                                          | Nutrition therapy for adults with diabetes or prediabetes: a consensus report. Diabetes Care 2019;42:731-754                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| 47. | Scalzo P.                                                                                         | From the Association of Diabetes Care & Education Specialists: the role of the diabetes care and education specialist as a champion of technology integration. Sci Diabetes Self Manag Care 2021;47:120-123                                                                                               |
| 48. | Rodriguez K, Ryan D, Dickinson JK, Phan V.                                                        | Improving quality outcomes: the value of diabetes care and education specialists. Clin Diabetes 2022;40:356-365                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| 49. | Litchman ML, Oser TK, Hodgson L, et al.                                                           | In-person and technology-mediated peer support in diabetes care: a systematic review of reviews and gap analysis. Diabetes Educ 2020;46:230-241                                                                                                                                                           |
| 50. | Evans J, White P, Ha H.                                                                           | Evaluating the effectiveness of community health worker interventions on glycaemic control in type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Lancet 2023;402(Suppl 1):S40                                                                                                                        |
| 51. | Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.                                                       | Diabetes Self-Management Education and Support (DSMES) Toolkit. The Multidisciplinary DSMES Team. Accessed 6 August 2025. Available from CDC                                                                        |
| 52. | Tharakan A, McPeek Hinz E, Zhu E, et al.                                                          | Accessibility of diabetes education in the United States: barriers, policy implications, and the road ahead. Health Aff Sch 2024;2:qxae097                                                                                                                                                                |
| 53. | Arena L, Austin R, Esquivel N, Vigil T, Kaelin-Kee J, Millstein S.                                | Understanding barriers and facilitators to participating in diabetes self-management education and support services from multiple perspectives: results of a mixed-methods study of Medicaid members, Medicaid managed care organizations, and providers in New York State. Clin Diabetes 2024;42:505-514 |
| 54. | Roth SE, Gronowski B, Jones KG, et al.                                                            | Evaluation of an integrated intervention to address diabetes self-management education and support. Diabetes Care 2021;44:464-472                                                                                                                                                                         |
| 55. | Greenwood DA, Gee PM, Fatkin KJ, Peeples M.                                                       | A systematic review of reviews evaluating technology-enabled diabetes self-management education and support. J Diabetes Sci Technol 2017;11:1015-1027                                                                                                                                                     |
| 56. | Powell RE, Zaccardi F, Beebe C, et al.                                                            | Strategies for overcoming therapeutic inertia in type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Diabetes Obes Metab 2021;23:2137-2154                                                                                                                                                            |
| 57. | Johnson CM, D’Eramo Melkus G, Reagan L, et al.                                                    | Learning in a virtual environment to improve type 2 diabetes outcomes: randomized controlled trial. JMIR Form Res 2023;7:e40359                                                                                                                                                                           |
| 58. | Center For Health Law and Policy Innovation.                                                      | Reconsidering cost-sharing for diabetes self-management education: recommendations for policy reform. Accessed 6 August 2025. Available from CHLPI                                                  |
| 59. | Lee M-K, Lee DY, Ahn H-Y, Park C-Y.                                                               | A novel user utility score for diabetes management using tailored mobile coaching: secondary analysis of a randomized controlled trial. JMIR Mhealth Uhealth 2021;9:e17573                                                                                                                                |
| 60. | Strategies to Enhance New CGM Use in Early Childhood (SENCE) Study Group.                         | A randomized clinical trial assessing continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) use with standardized education compared with fingerstick blood glucose monitoring in very young children with type 1 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2021;44:464-472                                                                   |
| 61. | Aronson R, Brown RE, Chu L, et al.                                                                | IMpact of flash glucose Monitoring in pEople with type 2 Diabetes Inadequately controlled with non-insulin Antihyperglycaemic ThErapy (IMMEDIATE): a randomized controlled trial. Diabetes Obes Metab 2023;25:1024-1031                                                                                   |
| 62. | Patil SP, Albanese-O’Neill A, Yehl K, Seley JJ, Hughes AS.                                        | Professional competencies for diabetes technology use in the care setting. Sci Diabetes Self Manag Care 2022;48:437-445                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| 63. | Greenwood DA, Litchman ML, Isaacs D, et al.                                                       | A new taxonomy for technology-enabled diabetes self-management interventions: results of an umbrella review. J Diabetes Sci Technol 2022;16:812-824                                                                                                                                                       |
| 64. | Association for Diabetes Care & Education Specialists.                                            | Diabetes Technology Resources for Healthcare Professionals. Accessed 6 August 2025. Available from ADCES                                                                                                                                                 |
| 65. | H.R.2617 - 117th Congress (2021-2022): Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023. (29 December 2022). | Accessed 6 August 2025. Available from Congress                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| 66. | Health and Human Services.                                                                        | Telehealth policy updates. Accessed 6 August 2025. Available from HHS                                                                                                        |
| 67. | Medicare.                                                                                         | Telehealth. Accessed 6 August 2025. Available from Medicare                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| 68. | American Diabetes Association.                                                                    | Standards of medical care for patients with diabetes mellitus. Diabetes Care 1989;12:365-368                                                                                                                                                                                                              |

2026 January 29 on guest by Download





diabetesjournals.org/care
# Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being

S119

diabetes: an arm-based Bayesian network meta-analysis. J Diabetes Investig 2023;14:263–288

Adjustment for Normal Eating (DAFNE) reduces long-term HbA1c and HbA1c variability. Diabet Med 2018;35:745–749

82. Benson G, Hayes J. An update on the medi­ terranean, vegetarian, and DAS Heating patterns in people with type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Spectr 2020; 33:125–132

83. English LK, Ard JD, Bailey RL, et al. Evaluation of dietary patterns and all-cause mortality: a systematic review. JAMA Netw Open 2021;4: e2122277

84. Ge L, Sadeghirad B, Ball GDC, et al. Comparison of dietary macronutrient patterns of popular named dietary programmes for weight and cardiovascular risk factor reduction in adults: systematic review and network meta-analysis of randomised trials. BMJ 2020;369:m696

85. Bonekamp NE, van Damme I, Geleijnse JM, et al. Effect of dietary patterns on cardiovascular risk factors in people with type 2 diabetes. A systematic review and network meta-analysis. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2023;195:110207

86. Pilla SJ, Yeh H-C, Mitchell CM, et al.; DASH4D Collaborative Research Group. Dietary patterns, sodium reduction, and blood pressure in type 2 diabetes: the DASH4D randomized clinical trial. JAMA Intern Med 2025;185:937–946

87. American Diabetes Association. Nutrition for Life: Diabetes Plate Method. Accessed 6 August 2025. Available from https://professional.diabetes.org/sites/dpro/files/2023-12/plan_your_plate.pdf

88. Bowen ME, Cavanaugh KL, Wolff K, et al. The diabetes nutrition education study randomized controlled trial: a comparative effectiveness study of approaches to nutrition in diabetes self-management education. Patient Educ Couns 2016; 99:1368–1376

89. Builes-Montaño CE, Ortiz-Cano NA, Ramirez-Rincón A, Rojas-Henao NA. Efficacy and safety of carbohydrate counting versus other forms of dietary advice in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised clinical trials. J Hum Nutr Diet 2022; 35:1030–1042

90. Witkow S, Liberty IF, Goloub I, et al. Simplifying carb counting: a randomized controlled study—feasibility and efficacy of an individualized, simple, patient-centred carb counting tool. Endocrinol Diabetes Metab 2023;6:e411

91. Haidar A, Legault L, Raffray M, et al. A randomized crossover trial to compare automated insulin delivery (the artificial pancreas) with carbohydrate counting or simplified qualitative meal-size estimation in type 1 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2023;46:1372–1378

92. Joubert M, Meyer L, Doriot A, Dreves B, Jeandidier N, Reznik Y. Prospective independent evaluation of the carbohydrate counting accuracy of two smartphone applications. Diabetes Ther 2021;12:1809–1820

93. Vasiloglou MF, Mougiakakou S, Aubry E, et al. A comparative study on carbohydrate estimation: GoCARB vs. dietitians. Nutrients 2018;10:741

94. Krause C, Sommerhalder K, Beer-Borst S, Abel T. Just a subtle difference? Findings from a systematic review on definitions of nutrition literacy and food literacy. Health Promot Int 2018;33: 378–389

95. Food Literacy Center. What is food literacy? Accessed 6 August 2025. Available from https://www.foodliteracycenter.org/about

96. Walker GS, Chen JY, Hopkinson H, Sainsbury CAR, Jones GC. Structured education using Dose Adjustment for Normal Eating (DAFNE) in adults with type 1 diabetes: a systematic review. Diabet Med 2023;40:e15178

97. Delahanty LM, Nathan DM, Lachin JM, et al.; Diabetes Control and Complications Trial/ Epidemiology of Diabetes. Association of diet with glycated hemoglobin during intensive treatment of type 1 diabetes in the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial. Am J Clin Nutr 2009;89:518–524

98. Sacks FM, Bray GA, Carey VJ, et al. Comparison of weight-loss diets with different compositions of fat, protein, and carbohydrates. N Engl J Med 2009;360:859–873

99. Gardner CD, Landry MJ, Perelman D, et al. Effect of a ketogenic diet versus Mediterranean diet on glycated hemoglobin in individuals with prediabetes and type 2 diabetes mellitus: the interventional Keto-Med randomized crossover trial. Am J Clin Nutr 2022;116:640–652

100. Ichikawa T, Okada H, Hironaka J, et al. Efficacy of long-term low carbohydrate diets for patients with type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. J Diabetes Investig 2024;15:1410–1421

101. Garbutt J, England C, Jones AG, Andrews RC, Salway R, Johnson L. Is glycaemic control associated with dietary patterns independent of weight change in people newly diagnosed with type 2 diabetes? Prospective analysis of the Early ACTivity-In-Diabetes trial. BMC Med 2022;20:161

102. Saslow LR, Daubenmier JJ, Moskowitz JT, et al. Twelve-month outcomes of a randomized trial of a moderate-carbohydrate versus very low-carbohydrate diet in overweight adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus or prediabetes. Nutr Diabetes 2017;7:304

103. Korsmo-Haugen H-K, Brurberg KG, Mann J, Aas A-M. Carbohydrate quantity in the dietary management of type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Diabetes Obes Metab 2019;21:15–27

104. Tian W, Cao S, Guan Y, et al. The effects of low-carbohydrate diet on glucose and lipid metabolism in overweight or obese patients with T2DM: a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Front Nutr 2024;11:1516086

105. U.S. Food and Drug Administration. FDA revises labels of SGLT2 inhibitors for diabetes to include warnings about too much acid in the blood and serious urinary tract infections. Accessed 6 August 2025. Available from https://www.fda.gov/drugs/drug-safety-and-availability/fda-revises-labels-sglt2-inhibitors-diabetes-include-warnings-about-too-much-acid-blood-and-serious

106. Ozoran H, Matheou M, Dyson P, Karpe F, Tan GD. Type 1 diabetes and low carbohydrate diets—defining the degree of nutritional ketosis. Diabet Med 2023;40:e15178

107. Attaye I, Warmbrunn MV, Boot ANAF, et al. A systematic review and meta-analysis of dietary interventions modulating gut microbiota and cardiometabolic diseases-striving for new standards in microbiome studies. Gastroenterology 2022;162:1911–1932

108. Partula V, Deschasaux M, Druesne-Pecollo N, et al.; Milieu Intérieur Consortium. Associations between consumption of dietary fibers and the risk of cardiovascular diseases, cancers, type 2 diabetes, and mortality in the prospective NutriNet-Santé cohort. Am J Clin Nutr 2020;112:195–207

109. Reynolds AN, Akerman AP, Mann J. Dietary fibre and whole grains in diabetes management: systematic review and meta-analyses. PLoS Med 2020;17:e1003053

110. Qi X, Chiavaroli L, Lee D, et al. Effect of important food sources of fructose-containing sugars on inflammatory biomarkers: a systematic review and meta-analysis of controlled feeding trials. Nutrients 2022;14:3986

111. Zafar MI, Mills KE, Zheng J, et al. Low-glycemic index diets as an intervention for diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Am J Clin Nutr 2019;110:891–902

112. Vega-López S, Venn BJ, Slavin JL. Relevance of the glycemic index and glycemic load for body weight, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease. Nutrients 2018;10:1361

113. Jenkins DJA, Willett WC, Yusuf S, et al.; Clinical Nutrition &#x26; Risk Factor Modification Centre Collaborators. Association of glycaemic index and glycaemic load with type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, cancer, and all-cause mortality: a meta-analysis of mega cohorts of more than 100000 participants. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2024;12:107–118

114. Chiavaroli L, Lee D, Ahmed A, et al. Effect of low glycaemic index or load dietary patterns on glycaemic control and cardiometabolic risk factors in diabetes: systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials. BMJ 2021;374:n1651

115. Thomas D, Elliott EJ. Low glycaemic index, or low glycaemic load, diets for diabetes mellitus. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2009;2009:CD006296

116. Smith TA, Smart CE, Howley PP, Lopez PE, King BR. For a high fat, high protein breakfast, preprandial administration of 125% of the insulin dose improves postprandial glycaemic excursions in people with type 1 diabetes using multiple daily injections: a cross-over trial. Diabet Med 2021;38:e14512

117. Bell KJ, Fio CZ, Twigg S, et al. Amount and type of dietary fat, postprandial glycemia, and insulin requirements in type 1 diabetes: a randomized within-subject trial. Diabetes Care 2020;43:59–66

118. Furthner D, Lukas A, Schneider AM, et al. The role of protein and fat intake on insulin therapy in glycaemic control of paediatric type 1 diabetes: a systematic review and research gaps. Nutrients 2021;13:3558

119. Al Balwi R, Al Madani W, Al Ghamdi A. Efficacy of insulin dosing algorithms for high-fat high-protein mixed meals to control postprandial glycemic excursions in people living with type 1 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Pediatr Diabetes 2022;23:1635–1646

120. Bell KJ, Toschi E, Steil GM, Wolpert HA. Optimized mealtime insulin dosing for fat and protein in type 1 diabetes: application of a model-based approach to derive insulin doses for open-loop diabetes management. Diabetes Care 2016;39:1631–1634

121. Metwally M, Cheung TO, Smith R, Bell KJ. Insulin pump dosing strategies for meals varying in fat, protein or glycaemic index or grazing-style meals in type 1 diabetes: a systematic review. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2021;172:108516

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf from Downloaded




# Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being

# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

carbohydrate counting in adolescents with type 1 diabetes using the MiniMed 780G advanced hybrid closed loop system: a randomized controlled trial comparing glucose control. Diabetes Care 2023;46:544–550

1. Phillip M, Nimri R, Bergenstal RM, et al. Consensus recommendations for the use of automated insulin delivery technologies in clinical practice. Endocr Rev 2023;44:254–280
2. Lesser LI. In adults at CV risk, Mediterranean-style or low-fat dietary programs vs. minimal interventions reduce all-cause mortality. Ann Intern Med 2023;176:JC78
3. Ley SH, Hamdy O, Mohan V, Hu FB. Prevention and management of type 2 diabetes: dietary components and nutritional strategies. Lancet 2014;383:1999–2007
4. Jiang S, Fang J, Li W. Protein restriction for diabetic kidney disease. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2023;1:CD014906
5. Viguiliouk E, Stewart SE, Jayalath VH, et al. Effect of replacing animal protein with plant protein on glycemic control in diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Nutrients 2015;7:9804–9824
6. Lamberg-Allardt C, Bärebring L, Arnesen EK, et al. Animal versus plant-based protein and risk of cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes: a systematic review of randomized controlled trials and prospective cohort studies. Food Nutr Res 2023;67:10.29219/fnr.v67.9003
7. Sullivan VK, Kim H, Caulfield LE, Steffen LM, Selvin E, Rebholz CM. Plant-based dietary patterns and incident diabetes in the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) study. Diabetes Care 2024;47:803–809
8. Willett W, Rockström J, Loken B, et al. Food in the Anthropocene: the EAT-Lancet Commission on healthy diets from sustainable food systems. Lancet 2019;393:447–492
9. Estruch R, Ros E, Salas-Salvadó J, et al.; PREDIMED Study Investigators. Primary prevention of cardiovascular disease with a Mediterranean diet supplemented with extra-virgin olive oil or nuts. N Engl J Med 2018;378:e34
10. Forouhi NG, Imamura F, Sharp SJ, et al. Association of plasma phospholipid n-3 and n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids with type 2 diabetes: the EPIC-InterAct case-cohort study. PLoS Med 2016;13:e1002094
11. Wang DD, Li Y, Chiuve SE, et al. Association of specific dietary fats with total and cause-specific mortality. JAMA Intern Med 2016;176:1134–1145
12. Sebastian SA, Padda I, Johal G. Long-term impact of Mediterranean diet on cardiovascular disease prevention: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Curr Probl Cardiol 2024;49:102509
13. Kirkpatrick CF, Sikand G, Petersen KS, et al. Nutrition interventions for adults with dyslipidemia: a clinical perspective from the National Lipid Association. J Clin Lipidol 2023;17:428–451
14. Karam G, Agarwal A, Sadeghirad B, et al. Comparison of seven popular structured dietary programmes and risk of mortality and major cardiovascular events in patients at increased cardiovascular risk: systematic review and network meta-analysis. BMJ 2023;380:e072003
15. Rosqvist F, Kullberg J, Ståhlman M, et al. Overeating saturated fat promotes fatty liver and ceramides compared with polyunsaturated fat: a randomized trial. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2019;104:6207–6219
16. Schwab U, Reynolds AN, Sallinen T, Rivellese AA, Risérus U. Dietary fat intakes and cardiovascular disease risk in adults with type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Eur J Nutr 2021;60:3355–3363
17. Sacks FM, Lichtenstein AH, Wu JHY, et al.; American Heart Association. Dietary fats and cardiovascular disease: a presidential advisory from the American Heart Association. Circulation 2017;136:e1–e23
18. Bosch J, Gerstein HC, Dagenais GR, et al.; ORIGIN Trial Investigators. n-3 fatty acids and cardiovascular outcomes in patients with dysglycemia. N Engl J Med 2012;367:309–318
19. Wheeler ML, Dunbar SA, Jaacks LM, et al. Macronutrients, food groups, and eating patterns in the management of diabetes: a systematic review of the literature, 2010. Diabetes Care 2012;35:434–445
20. Brown TJ, Brainard J, Song F, Wang X, Abdelhamid A, Hooper L; PUFAH Group. Omega-3, omega-6, and total dietary polyunsaturated fat for prevention and treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus: systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. BMJ 2019;366:l4697
21. Bowman L, Mafham M, Wallendszus K, et al.; ASCEND Study Collaborative Group. Effects of n-3 fatty acid supplements in diabetes mellitus. N Engl J Med 2018;379:1540–1550
22. Bhatt DL, Steg PG, Miller M, et al.; REDUCE-IT Investigators. Cardiovascular risk reduction with icosapent ethyl for hypertriglyceridemia. N Engl J Med 2019;380:11–22
23. Hodson EM, Cooper TE. Altered dietary salt intake for preventing diabetic kidney disease and its progression. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2023;1:CD006763
24. Han S, Cheng D, Liu N, Kuang H. The relationship between diabetic risk factors, diabetic complications and salt intake. J Diabetes Complications 2018;32:531–537
25. Morales-Alvarez MC, Nissaisorakarn V, Appel LJ, et al. Effects of reduced dietary sodium and the DASH diet on GFR: the DASH-sodium trial. Kidney360 2024;5:569–576
26. Hannon BA, Fairfield WD, Adams B, Kyle T, Crow M, Thomas DM. Use and abuse of dietary supplements in persons with diabetes. Nutr Diabetes 2020;10:14
27. Kazemi A, Ryul Shim S, Jamali N, et al. Comparison of nutritional supplements for glycemic control in type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and network meta-analysis of randomized trials. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2022;191:110037
28. National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health. Dietary and Herbal Supplements. Accessed 6 August 2025. Available from https://www.nccih.nih.gov/health/dietary-and-herbal-supplements
29. U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Dietary Supplements. Accessed 6 August 2025. Available from https://www.fda.gov/food/dietary-supplements
30. Dwyer JT, Coates PM, Smith MJ. Dietary supplements: regulatory challenges and research resources. Nutrients 2018;10:41
31. U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Dietary Supplement Ingredient Directory. Accessed 6 August 2025. Available from https://www.fda.gov/

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf from Downloaded





diabetesjournals.org/care
# Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being

S121

1. Llamosas-Falcón L, Rehm J, Bright S, et al. The relationship between alcohol consumption, BMI, and type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and dose-response meta-analysis. *Diabetes Care* 2023;46:2076–2083
2. Krittanawong C, Isath A, Rosenson RS, et al. Alcohol consumption and cardiovascular health: a systematic review and meta-analysis. *JAMA* Am J Med 2022;135:1213–1230.e3
3. National Agricultural Library, U.S. Department of Agriculture. Nutritive and nonnutritive sweetener resources. Accessed 6 August 2025. Available from https://www.nal.usda.gov/human-nutrition-and-food-safety/food-composition/sweeteners
4. U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Food Additives &#x26; Petitions. Aspartame and Other Sweeteners in Food. Accessed 8 September 2025. Available from https://www.fda.gov/food/food-additives-petitions/aspartame-and-other-sweeteners-food#:∼:text=Text%20Version%20of%20Safe%20Levels%20of%20Sweeteners&#x26;text=The%20ADI%20in%20milligrams%20per,5%20mg/kg%20bw/d
5. Lohner S, Kuellenberg de Gaudry D, Toews I, Ferenci T, Meerpohl JJ. Non-nutritive sweeteners for diabetes mellitus. *Cochrane Database Syst Rev* 2020;5:CD012885
6. Zhang R, Noronha JC, Khan TA, et al. The effect of non-nutritive sweetened beverages on postprandial glycemic and endocrine responses: a systematic review and network meta-analysis. *Nutrients* 2023;15:1050
7. Sylvetsky AC, Chandran A, Talegawkar SA, Welsh JA, Drews K, El Ghormli L. Consumption of beverages containing low-calorie sweeteners, diet, and cardiometabolic health in youth with type 2 diabetes. *J Acad Nutr Diet* 2020;120:1348–1358.e6
8. Golzan SA, Movahedian M, Haghighat N, Asbaghi O, Hekmatdoost A. Association between non-nutritive sweetener consumption and liver enzyme levels in adults: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials. *Nutr Rev* 2023;81:1105–1117
9. Miller PE, Perez V. Low-calorie sweeteners and body weight and composition: a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials and prospective cohort studies. *Am J Clin Nutr* 2014;100:765–777
10. Rogers PJ, Hogenkamp PS, de Graaf C, et al. Does low-energy sweetener consumption affect energy intake and body weight? A systematic review, including meta-analyses, of the evidence from human and animal studies. *Int J Obes (Lond)* 2016;40:381–394
11. Laviada-Molina H, Molina-Segui F, Pérez-Gaxiola G, et al. Effects of nonnutritive sweeteners on body weight and BMI in diverse clinical contexts: systematic review and meta-analysis. *Obes Rev* 2020;21:e13020
12. Azad MB, Abou-Setta AM, Chauhan BF, et al. Nonnutritive sweeteners and cardiometabolic health: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials and prospective cohort studies. *CMAJ* 2017;189:e929–e939
13. Lee JJ, Khan TA, McGlynn N, et al. Relation of change or substitution of low- and no-calorie sweetened beverages with cardiometabolic outcomes: a systematic review and meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies. *Diabetes Care* 2022;45:1917–1930
14. Mattes RD, Popkin BM. Nonnutritive sweetener consumption in humans: effects on energy intake and body weight. *Diabetes Spectr* 2017;30:250–257
15. Hemmingsen B, Gimenez-Perez G, Mauricio D, Roque IFM, Metzendorf MI, Richter B. Diet, physical activity or both for prevention or delay of type 2 diabetes mellitus and its associated complications in people at increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes mellitus. *Cochrane Database Syst Rev* 2017;12:CD003054
16. Rebello CJ, Zhang D, Kirwan JP, et al. Effect of exercise training on insulin-stimulated glucose disposal: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. *Int J Obes (Lond)* 2023;47:348–357
17. Singh N, Stewart RAH, Benatar JR. Intensity and duration of lifestyle interventions for long-term weight loss and association with mortality: a meta-analysis of randomised trials. *BMJ Open* 2019;9:e029966
18. Lean ME, Leslie WS, Barnes AC, et al.; Primary care-led weight management for remission of type 2 diabetes (DiRECT): an open-label, cluster-randomised trial. *Lancet* 2018;391:541–551
19. Wing RR, Lang W, Wadden TA, et al.; Look AHEAD Research Group. Benefits of modest weight loss in improving cardiovascular risk factors in overweight and obese individuals with type 2 diabetes. *Diabetes Care* 2011;34:1481–1486
20. Aukan MI, Coutinho S, Pedersen SA, Simpson MR, Martins C. Differences in gastrointestinal hormones and appetite ratings between individuals with and without obesity—a systematic review and meta-analysis. *Obes Rev* 2023;24:e13531
21. Farhat G, Mellor DD, Sattar N, Harvie M, Issa B, Rutter MK. Effectiveness of lifestyle interventions/culturally bespoke programmes in South Asian ethnic groups targeting weight loss for prevention and/or remission of type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis of intervention trials. *J Hum Nutr Diet* 2024;37:550–563
22. Ye W, Xu L, Ye Y, et al. The efficacy and safety of meal replacement in patients with type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. *J Clin Endocrinol Metab* 2023;108:3041–3049

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf from Downloaded




S122  Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being    Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

1. Murphy E, Finucane FM. Structured lifestyle modification as an adjunct to obesity pharmacotherapy: there is much to learn. Int J Obes (Lond) 2025;49:427–432
2. Lean MEJ, Leslie WS, Barnes AC, et al. Durability of a primary care-led weight-management intervention for remission of type 2 diabetes: 2-year results of the DiRECT open-label, cluster-randomised trial. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2019;7:344–355
3. Raben A, Vestentoft PS, Brand-Miller J, et al. The PREVIEW intervention study: results from a 3-year randomized 2 x 2 factorial multinational trial investigating the role of protein, glycaemic index and physical activity for prevention of type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Obes Metab 2021;23:324–337
4. Salvia MG, Quatromoni PA. Behavioral approaches to nutrition and eating patterns for managing type 2 diabetes: a review. Am J Med Open 2023;9:100034
5. Henry CJ, Kaur B, Quek RYC. Chrononutrition in the management of diabetes. Nutr Diabetes 2020;10:6
6. Liu J, Yi P, Liu F. The effect of early time-restricted eating vs later time-restricted eating on weight loss and metabolic health. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2023;108:1824–1834
7. Wang L, Ma Q, Fang B, et al. Shift work is associated with an increased risk of type 2 diabetes and elevated RBP4 level: cross sectional analysis from the OHSPIW cohort study. BMC Public Health 2023;23:1139
8. Jamshed H, Steger FL, Bryan DR, et al. Effectiveness of early time-restricted eating for weight loss, fat loss, and cardiometabolic health in adults with obesity: a randomized clinical trial. JAMA Intern Med 2022;182:953–962
9. Lowe DA, Wu N, Rohdin-Bibby L, et al. Effects of time-restricted eating on weight loss and other metabolic parameters in women and men with overweight and obesity: the TREAT randomized clinical trial. JAMA Intern Med 2020;180:1491–1499
10. Schroor MM, Joris PJ, Plat J, Mensink RP. Effects of intermittent energy restriction compared with those of continuous energy restriction on body composition and cardiometabolic risk markers—a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials in adults. Adv Nutr 2024;15:100130
11. Pappachan JM. In T2DM with obesity, time-restricted eating increased weight loss and reduced HbA1c level at 6 mo. Ann Intern Med 2024;177:JC16
12. Varady KA, Cienfuegos S, Ezpeleta M, Gabel K. Clinical application of intermittent fasting for weight loss: progress and future directions. Nat Rev Endocrinol 2022;18:309–321
13. Al-Arouj M, Assaad-Khalil S, Buse J, et al. Recommendations for management of diabetes during Ramadan: update 2010. Diabetes Care 2010;33:1895–1902
14. Grajower MM. Management of diabetes mellitus on Yom Kippur and other Jewish fast days. Endocr Pract 2008;14:305–311
15. Gupta N, Gusdorf J. Guidance for physicians on the Yom Kippur fast. Georgetown Medical Review 2023;7
16. Saboo B, Joshi S, Shah SN, et al. Management of diabetes during fasting and feasting in India. J Assoc Physicians India 2019;67:70–77

2026  January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf from Downloaded




diabetesjournals.org/care
# Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being

# Managing Co-morbid Depression in Adults with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis

Harnois-Leblanc S, Sylvestre M-P, Van Hulst A, et al. Estimating causal effects of physical activity and sedentary behaviours on the development of type 2 diabetes in at-risk children from childhood to late adolescence: an analysis of the QUALITY cohort. Diabetologia 2025;68:255–280.

Peters Al, Laffel L. The American Diabetes Association/JDRF Type 1 Diabetes Sourcebook. p. 2013.

Colberg SR, Sigal RJ, Yardley JE, et al. Physical activity/exercise and diabetes: a position statement of the American Diabetes Association. Diabetes Care 2016;39:2065–2079.

Nelson KM, Reiber G, Boyko EJ. Diet and exercise among adults with type 2 diabetes: findings from the third national health and nutrition examination survey (NHANES III). Diabetes Care 2002;25:1722–1728.

Frediani JK, Bienvenida AF, Li J, Higgins MK, Lobelo F. Physical fitness and activity changes after a 24-week soccer-based adaptation of the U.S diabetes prevention program intervention in Hispanic men. Prog Cardiovasc Dis 2020;63:775–785.

Taylor JD, Fletcher JP, Tiarks J. Impact of physical therapist-directed exercise counseling combined with fitness center-based exercise training on muscular strength and exercise capacity in people with type 2 diabetes: a randomized clinical trial. Phys Ther 2009;89:884–892.

Umpierre D, Ribeiro PAB, Kramer CK, et al. Physical activity advice only or structured exercise training and association with HbA1c levels in type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. JAMA 2011;305:1790–1799.

Schwingshackl L, Missbach B, Dias S, König J, Hoffmann G. Impact of different training modalities on glycaemic control and blood lipids in patients with type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and network meta-analysis. Diabetologia 2014;57:1789–1797.

Yardley JE, Hay J, Abou-Setta AM, Marks SD, McGavock J. A systematic review and meta-analysis of exercise interventions in adults with type 1 diabetes. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2014;106:393–400.

Kennedy A, Nirantharakumar K, Chimen M, et al. Does exercise improve glycaemic control in type 1 diabetes? A systematic review and meta-analysis. PLoS One 2013;8:e58861.

Sigal RJ, Yardley JE, Perkins BA, et al.; READI Trial Investigators. The Resistance Exercise in Already Active Diabetic Individuals (READI) randomized clinical trial. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2023;108:e63–e75.

Riddell MC, Li Z, Gal RL, et al.; T1DEXI Study Group. Examining the acute glycemic effects of different types of structured exercise sessions in type 1 diabetes in a real-world setting: the Type 1 Diabetes and Exercise Initiative (T1DEXI). Diabetes Care 2023;46:704–713.

Turner LV, Marak MC, Gal RL, et al.; T1DEXI Study Group. Associations between daily step count classifications and continuous glucose monitoring metrics in adults with type 1 diabetes: analysis of the Type 1 Diabetes Exercise Initiative (T1DEXI) cohort. Diabetologia 2024;67:1009–1022.

Moser O, Zaharieva DP, Adolfsson P, et al. The use of automated insulin delivery around physical activity and exercise in type 1 diabetes: a position statement of the European Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD) and the International Society for Pediatric and Adolescent Diabetes (ISPAD). Pediatr Diabetes 2022;23:1341–1372.

Anderson BJ, Laffel LM, Domenger C, et al. Factors associated with diabetes-specific health-related quality of life in youth with type 1 diabetes: the Global TEENs Study. Diabetes Care 2017;40:1002–1009.

Gortmaker SL, Must A, Sobol AM, Peterson K, Colditz GA, Dietz WH. Television viewing as a cause of increasing obesity among children in the United States, 1986-1990. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med 1996;150:356–362.

de Jong E, Visscher TLS, HiraSing RA, Heymans MW, Seidell JC, Renders CM. Association between TV viewing, computer use and overweight, determinants and competing activities of screentime in 4- to 13-year-old children. Int J Obes (Lond) 2013;37:47–53.

Hardy LL, Denney-Wilson E, Thrift AP, Okely AD, Baur LA. Screen time and metabolic risk factors among adolescents. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med 2010;164:643–649.

Chimen M, Kennedy A, Nirantharakumar K, Pang TT, Andrews R, Narendran P. What are the health benefits of physical activity in type 1 diabetes mellitus? A literature review. Diabetologia 2012;55:542–551.

Jelleyman C, Yates T, O’Donovan G, et al. The effects of high-intensity interval training on glucose regulation and insulin resistance: a meta-analysis. Obes Rev 2015;16:942–961.

Little JP, Gillen JB, Percival ME, et al. Low-volume high-intensity interval training reduces hyperglycemia and increases muscle mitochondrial capacity in patients with type 2 diabetes. J Appl Physiol (1985) 2011;111:1554–1560.

Grace A, Chan E, Giallauria F, Graham PL, Smart NA. Clinical outcomes and glycaemic responses to different aerobic exercise training intensities in type II diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Cardiovasc Diabetol 2017;16:37.

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf from Downloaded



S124  Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being    Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

296. Al-Mhanna SB, Franklin BA, Jakicic JM, et al. The impact of resistance training on cardiometabolic health-related indices in patients with type 2 diabetes and overweight/obesity: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Br J Sports Med 2025;59:733–746

297. Wan Y, Su Z. The impact of resistance exercise training on glycemic control among adults with type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Biol Res Nurs 2024;26:597–623

298. Gordon BA, Benson AC, Bird SR, Fraser SF. Resistance training improves metabolic health in type 2 diabetes: a systematic review. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2009;83:157–175

299. Liu Y, Ye W, Chen Q, Zhang Y, Kuo C-H, Korivi M. Resistance exercise intensity is correlated with attenuation of HbA1c and insulin in patients with type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Int J Environ Res Public Health 2019;16:140

300. Cui J, Yan J-H, Yan L-M, Pan L, Le J-J, Guo Y-Z. Effects of yoga in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus: a meta-analysis. J Diabetes Investig 2017;8:201–209

301. Lee MS, Jun JH, Lim H-J, Lim H-S. A systematic review and meta-analysis of tai chi for treating type 2 diabetes. Maturitas 2015;80:14–23

302. Rees JL, Johnson ST, Boulé NG. Aquatic exercise for adults with type 2 diabetes: a meta-analysis. Acta Diabetol 2017;54:895–904

303. Chapman A, Meyer C, Renehan E, Hill KD, Browning CJ. Exercise interventions for the improvement of falls-related outcomes among older adults with diabetes mellitus: a systematic review and meta-analyses. J Diabetes Complications 2017;31:631–645

304. Pfeifer LO, Botton CE, Diefenthaeler F, Umpierre D, Pinto RS. Effects of a power training program in the functional capacity, on body balance and lower limb muscle strength of elderly with type 2 diabetes mellitus. J Sports Med Phys Fitness 2021;61:1529–1537

305. Lee J, Kim D, Kim C. Resistance training for glycemic control, muscular strength, and lean body mass in old type 2 diabetic patients: a meta-analysis. Diabetes Ther 2017;8:459–473

306. Herriott MT, Colberg SR, Parson HK, Nunnold T, Vinik AI. Effects of 8 weeks of flexibility and resistance training in older adults with type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2004;27:2988–2989

307. Hollekim-Strand SM, Bjørgaas MR, Albrektsen G, Tjønna AE, Wisløff U, Ingul CB. High-intensity interval exercise effectively improves cardiac function in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and diastolic dysfunction: a randomized controlled trial. J Am Coll Cardiol 2014;64:1758–1760

308. Madsen SM, Thorup AC, Overgaard K, Jeppesen PB. High intensity interval training improves glycaemic control and pancreatic β cell function of type 2 diabetes patients. PLoS One 2015;10:e0133286

309. Nieuwoudt S, Fealy CE, Foucher JA, et al. Functional high-intensity training improves pancreatic β-cell function in adults with type 2 diabetes. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab 2017;313:E314–E320

310. Riddell MC, Peters AL. Exercise in adults with type 1 diabetes mellitus. Nat Rev Endocrinol 2023;19:98–111

311. Karstoft K, Winding K, Knudsen SH, et al. The effects of free-living interval-walking training on glycemic control, body composition, and physical fitness in type 2 diabetic patients: a randomized controlled trial. Diabetes Obes Metab 2017;19:1040–1044

312. Findikoglu G, Altinkapak A, Yaylali GF. Is isoenergetic high-intensity interval exercise superior to moderate-intensity continuous exercise for cardiometabolic risk factors in individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus? A single-blinded randomized controlled study. Eur J Sport Sci 2023;23:2086–2097

313. Aronson R, Brown RE, Li A, Riddell MC. Optimal insulin correction factor in post-high-intensity exercise hyperglycemia in adults with type 1 diabetes: the FIT study. Diabetes Care 2019;42:10–16

314. Kanaley JA, Colberg SR, Corcoran MH, et al. Exercise/physical activity in individuals with type 2 diabetes: a consensus statement from the American College of Sports Medicine. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2022;54:353–368

315. Boppre G, Diniz-Sousa F, Veras L, et al. Impact of a multicomponent exercise training program on muscle strength after bariatric surgery: a randomized controlled trial. Obes Surg 2024;34:1704–1716

316. In G, Taskin HE, Al M, et al. Comparison of 12-week fitness protocols following bariatric surgery: aerobic exercise versus aerobic exercise and progressive resistance. Obes Surg 2021;31:1475–1484

317. Herring LY, Stevinson C, Carter P, et al. The effects of supervised exercise training 12-24 months after bariatric surgery on physical function and body composition: a randomized controlled trial. Int J Obes (Lond) 2017;41:909–916

318. Bellicha A, Ciangura C, Roda C, et al. Effect of exercise training after bariatric surgery: a 5-year follow-up study of a randomized controlled trial. PLoS One 2022;17:e0271561

319. Coen PM, Tanner CJ, Helbling NL, et al. Clinical trial demonstrates exercise following bariatric surgery improves insulin sensitivity. J Clin Invest 2015;125:248–257

320. Carnero EA, Dubis GS, Hames KC, et al. Randomized trial reveals that physical activity and energy expenditure are associated with weight and body composition after RYGB. Obesity (Silver Spring) 2017;25:1206–1216

321. Ingersen A, Schmücker M, Alexandersen C, et al. Effects of aerobic training and semaglutide treatment on pancreatic β-cell secretory function in patients with type 2 diabetes. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2023;108:2798–2811

322. Jensen SBK, Juhl CR, Janus C, et al. Weight loss maintenance with exercise and liraglutide improves glucose tolerance, glucagon response, and beta cell function. Obesity (Silver Spring) 2023;31:977–989

323. Sandsdal RM, Juhl CR, Jensen SBK, et al. Combination of exercise and GLP-1 receptor agonist treatment reduces severity of metabolic syndrome, abdominal obesity, and inflammation: a randomized controlled trial. Cardiovasc Diabetol 2023;22:41

324. Lundgren JR, Janus C, Jensen SBK, et al. Healthy weight loss maintenance with exercise, liraglutide, or both combined. N Engl J Med 2021;384:1719–1730

325. Jorgensen PG, Jensen MT, Mensberg P, et al. Effect of exercise combined with glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist treatment on cardiac function. Diabetes Care 2010;33:1578–1584

326. Moser O, Riddell MC, Eckstein ML, et al. Glucose management for exercise using continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) and intermittently scanned CGM (isCGM) systems in type 1 diabetes: position statement of the European Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD) and of the International Society for Pediatric and Adolescent Diabetes (ISPAD) endorsed by JDRF and supported by the American Diabetes Association (ADA). Diabetologia 2020;63:2501–2520

327. Rietz M, Lehr A, Mino E, et al. Physical activity and risk of major diabetes-related complications in individuals with diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis of observational studies. Diabetes Care 2022;45:3101–3111

328. Colberg SR. Exercise and Diabetes: a Clinician’s Guide to Prescribing Physical Activity. Arlington, VA, American Diabetes Association, 2013

329. Hulshof CM, van Netten JJ, Pijnappels M, Bus SA. The role of foot-loading factors and their associations with ulcer development and ulcer healing in people with diabetes: a systematic review. J Clin Med 2020;9:3591

330. Lemaster JW, Reiber GE, Smith DG, Heagerty PJ, Wallace C. Daily weight-bearing activity does not increase the risk of diabetic foot ulcers. Med Sci Sports Exerc 2003;35:1093–1099

331. Smith AG, Russell J, Feldman EL, et al. Lifestyle intervention for pre-diabetic neuropathy. Diabetes Care 2006;29:1294–1299

332. Spallone V, Ziegler D, Freeman R, et al. Toronto Consensus Panel on Diabetic Neuropathy. Cardiovascular autonomic neuropathy in diabetes: clinical impact, assessment, diagnosis, and management. Diabetes Metab Res Rev 2011;27:639–653

333. Pop-Busui R, Evans GW, Gerstein HC, et al. Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes Study Group. Effects of cardiac autonomic dysfunction on mortality risk in the Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes (ACCORD) trial. Diabetes Care 2010;33:1578–1584

334. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Eliminating Tobacco-Related Disease and Death: Addressing Disparities. A Report of the Surgeon General. Accessed 6 August 2025. Available from https://www.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/2024-sgr-tobacco-related-health-disparities-full-report.pdf

335. Sliwinska-Mosson M, Milnerowicz H. The impact of smoking on the development of diabetes and its complications. Diab Vasc Dis Res 2017;14:265–276

336. Pan A, Wang Y, Talaei M, Hu FB. Relation of smoking with total mortality and cardiovascular events among patients with diabetes mellitus: a meta-analysis and systematic review. Circulation 2015;132:1795–1804

337. Pan A, Wang Y, Talaei M, Hu FB, Wu T. Relation of active, passive, and quitting smoking with incident type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2015;3:958–967

338. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Smoking Cessation. A Report of the Surgeon General, 2020. Accessed 13 August 2026.

January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf from Downloaded



diabetesjournals.org/care
# Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being

S125

2024. Available from https://www.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/2020-cessation-sgr-full-report.pdf

| 339. | Loretan CG, Cornelius ME, Jamal A, Cheng YJ, Homa DM. Cigarette smoking among US adults with selected chronic diseases associated with smoking, 2010-2019. Prev Chronic Dis 2022; 19:E62                                                                                                                                                                         |
| ---- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 340. | Rigotti NA, Kruse GR, Livingstone-Banks J, Hartmann-Boyce J. Treatment of tobacco smoking: a review. JAMA 2022; 327:566–577                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| 341. | World Health Organization. WHO clinical treatment guideline for tobacco cessation in adults. Accessed 8 September 2025. Available from <https://www.who.int/publications/i/item/9789240096431>                                                                                                                                                                   |
| 342. | Rojewski AM, Palmer AM, Baker NL, Toll BA. Smoking cessation pharmacotherapy efficacy in comorbid medical populations: secondary analysis of the Evaluating Adverse Events in a Global Smoking Cessation Study (EAGLES) randomized clinical trial. Nicotine Tob Res 2024; 26:31–38                                                                               |
| 343. | Leone FT, Zhang Y, Evers-Casey S, et al. Initiating pharmacologic treatment in tobacco-dependent adults. An official American Thoracic Society clinical practice guideline. Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2020; 202:e5–e31                                                                                                                                           |
| 344. | Tian J, Venn A, Otahal P, Gall S. The association between quitting smoking and weight gain: a systematic review and meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies. Obes Rev 2015; 16:883–901                                                                                                                                                                       |
| 345. | Wang X, Qin L-Q, Arafa A, Eshak ES, Hu Y, Dong J-Y. Smoking cessation, weight gain, cardiovascular risk, and all-cause mortality: a meta-analysis. Nicotine Tob Res 2021; 23:1987–1994                                                                                                                                                                           |
| 346. | Hartmann-Boyce J, Theodoulou A, Farley A, et al. Interventions for preventing weight gain after smoking cessation. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2021; 10:CD006219                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| 347. | Yammine L, Green CE, Kosten TR, et al. Exenatide adjunct to nicotine patch facilitates smoking cessation and may reduce post-cessation weight gain: a pilot randomized controlled trial. Nicotine Tob Res 2021; 23:1682–1690                                                                                                                                     |
| 348. | Asthana S, Labani S, Kailash U, Sinha DN, Mehrotra R. Association of smokeless tobacco use and oral cancer: a systematic global review and meta-analysis. Nicotine Tob Res 2019; 21:1162–1171                                                                                                                                                                    |
| 349. | Dennison Himmelfarb CR, Benowitz NL, Blank MD, et al.; American Heart Association Advocacy Coordinating Committee. Impact of smokeless or oral nicotine products on cardiovascular disease: implications for policy, prevention, and treatment: a policy statement from the American Heart Association. Circulation 2025; 151:e1–e21                             |
| 350. | Huerta TR, Walker DM, Mullen D, Johnson TJ, Ford EW. Trends in e-cigarette awareness and perceived harmfulness in the U.S. Am J Prev Med 2017; 52:339–346                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| 351. | Kiernan E, Click ES, Melstrom P, et al.; Lung Injury Response Clinical Task Force; Lung Injury Response Clinical Working Group. A brief overview of the national outbreak of e-cigarette, or vaping, product use-associated lung injury and the primary causes. Chest 2021; 159:426–431                                                                          |
| 352. | Darville A, Hahn EJ. E-cigarettes and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease: what clinicians and researchers need to know. Curr Atheroscler Rep 2019; 21:15                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| 353. | Pierce JP, Benmarhnia T, Chen R, et al. Role of e-cigarettes and pharmacotherapy during smoking cessation: a systematic review. JAMA Intern Med 2022; 182:943–952                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| 354. | Chen R, Pierce JP, Leas EC, et al. Use of electronic cigarettes to aid long-term smoking cessation in the United States: prospective evidence from the PATH cohort study. Am J Epidemiol 2020; 189:1529–1537                                                                                                                                                     |
| 355. | Reid RD, Malcolm J, Wooding E, et al. Prospective, cluster-randomized trial to implement the Ottawa model for smoking cessation in diabetes education programs in Ontario, Canada. Diabetes Care 2018; 41:406–412                                                                                                                                                |
| 356. | Assaf RD, Gorbach PM, Cooper ZD. Changes in medical and non-medical cannabis use among United States adults before and during the COVID-19 pandemic. Am J Drug Alcohol Abuse 2022; 48:321–327                                                                                                                                                                    |
| 357. | Hasin D, Walsh C. Trends over time in adult cannabis use: a review of recent findings. Curr Opin Psychol 2021; 38:80–85                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| 358. | Jadoon KA, Ratcliffe SH, Barrett DA, et al. Efficacy and safety of cannabidiol and tetrahydrocannabivarin on glycemic and lipid parameters in patients with type 2 diabetes: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group pilot study. Diabetes Care 2016; 39:1777–1786                                                                        |
| 359. | Freeman TP, Craft S, Wilson J, et al. Changes in delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD) concentrations in cannabis over time: systematic review and meta-analysis. Addiction 2021; 116:1000–1010                                                                                                                                               |
| 360. | U.S. Food and Drug Administration. 5 Things to Know about Delta-8 Tetrahydrocannabinol-Delta-8 THC, 2022. Accessed 6 August 2025. Available from <https://www.fda.gov/consumers/consumer-updates/5-things-know-about-delta-8-tetrahydrocannabinol-delta-8-thc>                                                                                                   |
| 361. | Akturk HK, Taylor DD, Camsari UM, Rewers A, Kinney GL, Shah VN. Association between cannabis use and risk for diabetic ketoacidosis in adults with type 1 diabetes. JAMA Intern Med 2019; 179:115–118                                                                                                                                                            |
| 362. | Kinney GL, Akturk HK, Taylor DD, Foster NC, Shah VN. Cannabis use is associated with increased risk for diabetic ketoacidosis in adults with type 1 diabetes: findings from the T1D Exchange Clinic Registry. Diabetes Care 2020; 43:247–249                                                                                                                     |
| 363. | Akturk HK, Snell-Bergeon J, Kinney GL, Champakanath A, Monte A, Shah VN. Differentiating diabetic ketoacidosis and hyperglycemic ketosis due to cannabis hyperemesis syndrome in adults with type 1 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2022; 45:481–483                                                                                                                     |
| 364. | Hood KK, Rohan JM, Peterson CM, Drotar D. Interventions with adherence-promoting components in pediatric type 1 diabetes: meta-analysis of their impact on glycemic control. Diabetes Care 2010; 33:1658–1664                                                                                                                                                    |
| 365. | Asche C, LaFleur J, Conner C. A review of diabetes treatment adherence and the association with clinical and economic outcomes. Clin Ther 2011; 33:74–109                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| 366. | Berhe KK, Gebru HB, Kahsay HB. Effect of motivational interviewing intervention on HgbA1C and depression in people with type 2 diabetes mellitus (systematic review and meta-analysis). PLoS One 2020; 15:e0240839                                                                                                                                               |
| 367. | Liang W, Lo SHS, Tola YO, Chow KM. The effectiveness of self-management programmes for people with type 2 diabetes receiving insulin. Diabetes Care 2022; 45:481–483                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| 368. | Almutairi N, Hosseinzadeh H, Gopaldasani V. The effectiveness of patient activation intervention on type 2 diabetes mellitus glycemic control and self-management behaviors: a systematic review of RCTs. Prim Care Diabetes 2020; 14:12–20                                                                                                                      |
| 369. | Gray KE, Hoerster KD, Taylor L, Krieger J, Nelson KM. Improvements in physical activity and some dietary behaviors in a community health worker-led diabetes self-management intervention for adults with low incomes: results from a randomized controlled trial. Transl Behav Med 2021; 11:2144–2154                                                           |
| 370. | Van Rhoon L, Byrne M, Morrissey E, Murphy J, McSharry J. A systematic review of the behaviour change techniques and digital features in technology-driven type 2 diabetes prevention interventions. Digit Health 2020; 6:20552076                                                                                                                                |
| 371. | Patton SR, Cushing CC, Lansing AH. Applying behavioral economics theories to interventions for persons with diabetes. Curr Diab Rep 2022; 22:219–226                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| 372. | Avery L, Flynn D, van Wersch A, Sniehotta FF, Trenell MI. Changing physical activity behavior in type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis of behavioral interventions. Diabetes Care 2012; 35:2681–2689                                                                                                                                            |
| 373. | Hilliard ME, Powell PW, Anderson BJ. Evidence-based behavioral interventions to promote diabetes management in children, adolescents, and families. Am Psychol 2016; 71:590–601                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| 374. | Lake AJ, Bo A, Hadjiconstantinou M. Developing and evaluating behaviour change interventions for people with younger-onset type 2 diabetes: lessons and recommendations from existing programmes. Curr Diab Rep 2021; 21:59                                                                                                                                      |
| 375. | Berlin KS, Klages KL, Banks GG, et al. Toward the development of a culturally humble intervention to improve glycemic control and quality of life among adolescents with type-1 diabetes and their families. Behav Med 2021; 47:99–110                                                                                                                           |
| 376. | Nicolucci A, Haxhi J, D’Errico V, et al.; Italian Diabetes and Exercise Study 2 (IDES\_2) Investigators. Effect of a behavioural intervention for adoption and maintenance of a physically active lifestyle on psychological well-being and quality of life in patients with type 2 diabetes: the IDES\_2 randomized clinical trial. Sports Med 2022; 52:643–654 |
| 377. | Crowley MJ, Tarkington PE, Bosworth HB, et al. Effect of a comprehensive telehealth intervention vs telemonitoring and care coordination in patients with persistently poor type 2 diabetes control: a randomized clinical trial. JAMA Intern Med 2022; 182:943–952                                                                                              |
| 378. | Harris MA, Freeman KA, Duke DC. Seeing is believing: using skype to improve diabetes outcomes in youth. Diabetes Care 2015; 38:1427–1434                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| 379. | Kaczmarek T, Kavanagh DJ, Lazzarini PA, Warnock J, Van Netten JJ. Training diabetes healthcare practitioners in motivational interviewing: a systematic review. Health Psychol Rev 2022; 16:430–449                                                                                                                                                              |
| 380. | Bell KJ, Barclay AW, Petocz P, Colagiuri S, Brand-Miller JC. Efficacy of carbohydrate counting in type 1 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis.                                                                                                                                                                                                        |

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf from Downloaded




# Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being

# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

analysis. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2014;2: 133–140

diabetes: an integrative review. J Pediatr Nurs 2021;60:190–197

a qualitative study. Diabetes Care 2011;34:1086–1088

| 381. | McVoy M, Hardin H, Fulchiero E, et al.                                                                              | Mental health comorbidity and youth onset type 2 diabetes: a systematic review of the literature. Int J Psychiatry Med 2023;58:37–55                                                                                                              |
| ---- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 382. | Naicker K, Johnson JA, Skogen JC, et al.                                                                            | Type 2 diabetes and comorbid symptoms of depression and anxiety: longitudinal associations with mortality risk. Diabetes Care 2017;40:352–358                                                                                                     |
| 383. | Anderson RJ, Grigsby AB, Freedland KE, et al.                                                                       | Anxiety and poor glycemic control: a meta-analytic review of the literature. Int J Psychiatry Med 2002;32:235–247                                                                                                                                 |
| 384. | Anderson RJ, Freedland KE, Clouse RE, Lustman PJ.                                                                   | The prevalence of comorbid depression in adults with diabetes: a meta-analysis. Diabetes Care 2001;24:1069–1078                                                                                                                                   |
| 385. | Nicolucci A, Kovacs Burns K, Holt RIG, et al.; DAWN2 Study Group.                                                   | Diabetes Attitudes, Wishes and Needs second study (DAWN2): cross-national benchmarking of diabetes-related psychosocial outcomes for people with diabetes. Diabet Med 2013;30:767–777                                                             |
| 386. | Guerrero Fernández de Alba I, Gimeno-Miguel A, Poblador-Plou B, et al.                                              | Association between mental health comorbidity and health outcomes in type 2 diabetes mellitus patients. Sci Rep 2020;10:19583                                                                                                                     |
| 387. | Gonzalvo JD, Hamm J, Eaves S, et al.                                                                                | A practical approach to mental health for the diabetes educator. AADE Pract 2019;7:29–44                                                                                                                                                          |
| 388. | Robinson DJ, Coons M, Haensel H, Vallis M, Yale J-F; Diabetes Canada Clinical Practice Guidelines Expert Committee. | Diabetes and mental health. Can J Diabetes 2018;42(Suppl 1):S130–S141                                                                                                                                                                             |
| 389. | Cho M-K, Kim MY.                                                                                                    | Self-management nursing intervention for controlling glucose among diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Int J Environ Res Public Health 2021;18:12750                                                                                 |
| 390. | Majidi S, Reid MW, Fogel J, et al.                                                                                  | Psychosocial outcomes in young adolescents with type 1 diabetes participating in shared medical appointments. Pediatr Diabetes 2021;22:787–795                                                                                                    |
| 391. | Jiang S, Wu Z, Zhang X, et al.                                                                                      | How does patient-centered communication influence patient trust?: the roles of patient participation and patient preference. Patient Educ Couns 2024;122:108161                                                                                   |
| 392. | Li Y, Storch EA, Ferguson S, Li L, Buys N, Sun J.                                                                   | The efficacy of cognitive behavioral therapy-based intervention on patients with diabetes: a meta-analysis. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2022;189:109965                                                                                               |
| 393. | Fisher L, Guzman S, Polonsky WH, Strycker L, Greenberg K, Hessler DM.                                               | How does addressing diabetes distress lead to positive glycemic change? Results from the EMBARK trial. Patient Educ Couns 2025:108748                                                                                                             |
| 394. | Phillips S, Culpepper J, Welch M, et al.                                                                            | A multidisciplinary diabetes clinic improves clinical and behavioral outcomes in a primary care setting. J Am Board Fam Med 2021;34:579–589                                                                                                       |
| 395. | Ali MK, Chwastiak L, Poongothai S, et al.; INDEPENDENT Study Group.                                                 | Effect of a collaborative care model on depressive symptoms and glycated hemoglobin, blood pressure, and serum cholesterol among patients with depression and diabetes in India: the INDEPENDENT randomized clinical trial. JAMA 2020;324:651–662 |
| 396. | Rechenberg K, Koerner R.                                                                                            | Cognitive behavioral therapy in adolescents with type 1 diabetes. J Diabetes Sci Technol 2022;16:1419–1427                                                                                                                                        |
| 397. | McMorrow R, Hunter B, Hendrieckx C, et al.                                                                          | Effect of routinely assessing and addressing depression and diabetes distress on clinical outcomes among adults with type 2 diabetes: a systematic review. BMJ Open 2022;12:e054650                                                               |
| 398. | Corathers S, Williford DN, Kichler J, et al.                                                                        | Implementation of psychosocial screening into diabetes clinics: experience from the Type 1 Diabetes Exchange Quality Improvement Network. Curr Diab Rep 2023;23:19–28                                                                             |
| 399. | Brodar KE, Davis EM, Lynn C, et al.                                                                                 | Comprehensive psychosocial screening in a pediatric diabetes clinic. Pediatr Diabetes 2021;22:656–666                                                                                                                                             |
| 400. | Myers MH.                                                                                                           | Brief report: depression and history of suicide attempts in adults with new-onset type 2 diabetes. Psychoneuroendocrinology 2013;38:2810–2814                                                                                                     |
| 401. | Majidi S, O’Donnell HK, Stanek K, Youngkin E, Gomer T, Driscoll KA.                                                 | Suicide risk assessment in youth and young adults with type 1 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2020;43:343–348                                                                                                                                             |
| 402. | Barnard-Kelly KD, Naranjo D, Majidi S, et al.                                                                       | Suicide and self-inflicted injury in diabetes: a balancing act. J Diabetes Sci Technol 2020;14:1010–1016                                                                                                                                          |
| 403. | Hill RM, S, Hilliard ME.                                                                                            | Suicide risk in youth and young adults with type 1 diabetes: a review of the literature and clinical recommendations for prevention. Curr Diab Rep 2021;21:51                                                                                     |
| 404. | Huang C-J, Huang Y-T, Lin P-C, Hsieh H-M, Yang Y-H.                                                                 | Mortality and suicide related to major depressive disorder before and after type 2 diabetes mellitus. J Clin Psychiatry 2022;83:20m13692                                                                                                          |
| 405. | Mulvaney SA, Mara CA, Kichler JC, et al.                                                                            | A retrospective multisite examination of depression screening practices, scores, and correlates in pediatric diabetes care. Transl Behav Med 2021;11:122–131                                                                                      |
| 406. | Marker AM, AE, McDonough RJ.                                                                                        | Adjusted cutoff scores increase sensitivity of depression screening measures in adolescents with type 1 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2022;45:2501–2508                                                                                                 |
| 407. | Weissberg-Benchell J, Shapiro JB.                                                                                   | A review of interventions aimed at facilitating successful transition planning and transfer to adult care among youth with chronic illness. Pediatr 2017;46:e182–e187                                                                             |
| 408. | O’Gurek DT, Henke C.                                                                                                | A practical approach to screening for social determinants of health. Fam Pract Manag 2018;25:7–12                                                                                                                                                 |
| 409. | Zhang H, Zhang Q, Luo D, et al.                                                                                     | The effect of family-based intervention for adults with diabetes on HbA1c and other health-related outcomes: systematic review and meta-analysis. J Clin Nurs 2022;31:1488–1501                                                                   |
| 410. | Oyedeji AD, Ullah I, Weich S, Bentall R, Booth A.                                                                   | Effectiveness of non-specialist delivered psychological interventions on glycemic control and mental health problems in individuals with type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Int J Ment Health Syst 2022;16:9                 |
| 411. | Beverly EA, Hultgren BA, Brooks KM, Ritholz MD, Abrahamson MJ, Weinger K.                                           | Understanding physicians’ challenges when treating type 2 diabetic patients’ social and emotional difficulties: a systematic review. Curr Diab Rep 2024;25:1                                                                                      |
| 412. | Vlachou E, Ntikoudi A, Owens DA, Nikolakopoulou M, Chalimourdas T, Cauli O.                                         | Effectiveness of cognitive behavioral therapy-based interventions on psychological symptoms in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus: an update review of randomized controlled trials. J Diabetes Complications 2022;36:108185                    |
| 413. | Hood KK, Iturralde E, Rausch J, Weissberg-Benchell J, Grannemann BD, Lingvay I, Trivedi.                            | Preventing diabetes distress in adolescents with type 1 diabetes: results 1 year after participation in the STePS program. Diabetes Care 2018;41:1623–1630                                                                                        |
| 414. | Weissberg-Benchell J, Shapiro JB, Bryant FB, Hood KK.                                                               | Supporting Teen Problem-Solving (STEPS) 3 year outcomes: preventing diabetes-specific emotional distress and depressive symptoms in adolescents with type 1 diabetes. J Consult Clin Psychol 2020;88:1019–1031                                    |
| 415. | Laffel LMB, Vangsness L, Connell A, Goebel-Fabbri A, Butler D, Anderson BJ.                                         | Impact of ambulatory, family-focused teamwork intervention on glycemic control in youth with type 1 diabetes. J Pediatr 2003;142:409–416                                                                                                          |
| 416. | Wysocki T, Harris MA, Buckloh LM, et al.                                                                            | Effects of behavioral family systems therapy for diabetes on adolescents’ family relationships, treatment adherence, and metabolic control. J Pediatr Psychol 2006;31:928–938                                                                     |
| 417. | Yakubu TI, Pawer S, West NC, Tang TS, Görges M.                                                                     | Impact of digitally enabled peer support interventions on diabetes distress and depressive symptoms in people living with type 1 diabetes: a systematic review. J Diabetes Investig 2021;12:1092–1103                                             |
| 418. | Fisher L, Guzman S, Polonsky W, Hessler D.                                                                          | Bringing the assessment and treatment of diabetes distress into the real world of clinical care: time for a shift in perspective. Diabet Med 2024;41:e15446                                                                                       |
| 419. | Hagger V, Hendrieckx C, Sturt J, Skinner TC, Speight J.                                                             | Diabetes distress among adolescents with type 1 diabetes: a systematic review. Curr Diab Rep 2016;16:9                                                                                                                                            |
| 420. | Wojujutari Ajele K, Sunday Idemudia E.                                                                              | The role of depression and diabetes distress in glycemic control: a meta-analysis. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2025;221:112014                                                                                                                        |
| 421. | Dalsgaard E-M, Graversen SB, Bjerg L, Sandbaek A, Laurberg T.                                                       | Diabetes distress and depression in type 2 diabetes. A cross-sectional study in 18,000 individuals in the Central Denmark region. Diabet Med 2025;42:e15463                                                                                       |
| 422. | Fisher L, Polonsky WH, Perez-Nieves M, Desai U, Strycker L, Hessler D.                                              | A new perspective on diabetes distress using the Type 2 Diabetes Distress Assessment System (T2-DDAS): prevalence and implications for clinical practice.                                                                                         |

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf





diabetesjournals.org/care
# Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being

S127

and change over time. J Diabetes Complications with type 2 diabetes: systematic review and meta-analysis. Diabet Med 2021;38:e14525

| 426. | Hessler DM, Polonsky WH, Strycker L, Naranjo D, Greenberg K, Fisher L. Stability and impact of diabetes distress over time: the potential value and uses of the Type 1 Diabetes Distress Assessment System (T1-DDAS). Diabet Med 2025; 42:e70066                                                                                   |
| ---- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 427. | Aikens JE. Prospective associations between emotional distress and poor outcomes in type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2012;35:2472–2478                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| 428. | McCarty T, Inverso H, Streisand R, et al. Diabetes distress among caregivers of adolescents with type 1 diabetes. J Pediatr Psychol. 11 July 2025 \[Epub ahead of print].                                                                                                                                                          |
| 429. | Gonzalez JS, Krause-Steinrauf H, Bebu I, et al.; GRADE Research Group. Emotional distress, self-management, and glycemic control among participants enrolled in the Glycemia Reduction Approaches in Diabetes: a Comparative Effectiveness (GRADE) study. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2023; 196:110229                                 |
| 430. | Liu X, Haagsma J, Sijbrands E, et al. Anxiety and depression in diabetes care: longitudinal associations with health-related quality of life. Sci Rep 2020;10:8307                                                                                                                                                                 |
| 431. | Guo X, Wu S, Tang H, et al. The relationship between stigma and psychological distress among people with diabetes: a meta-analysis. BMC Psychol 2023;11:242                                                                                                                                                                        |
| 432. | Akyirem S, Ekpor E, Namumbejja Abwoye D, Batten J, Nelson LE. Type 2 diabetes stigma and its association with clinical, psychological, and behavioral outcomes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2023;202:110774                                                                                     |
| 433. | Hamilton K, Forde R, Due-Christensen M, et al. Which diabetes specific patient reported outcomes should be measured in routine care? A systematic review to inform a core outcome set for adults with type 1 and 2 diabetes mellitus: the European Health Outcomes Observatory (H2O) programme. Patient Educ Couns 2023;116:107933 |
| 434. | Michot AP, Evans TL, Vasudevan MM, et al. The case for screening for diabetes distress, depression, and anxiety. J Health Psychol 2024;29:1608–1613                                                                                                                                                                                |
| 435. | Franc S, Charpentier G. Emotional distress as a therapeutic target against persistent poor glycaemic control in subjects with type 1 diabetes: a systematic review. Diabetes Obes Metab 2025; 27:4662–4673                                                                                                                         |
| 436. | Hu H, Kuang L, Dai H, Sheng Y. Effectiveness of nurse-led psychological interventions on diabetes distress, depression, and glycemic control in individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus: a systematic review and meta-analysis. J Psychosoc Nurs Ment Health Serv 2025;63:11–18                                                  |
| 437. | Zu W, Zhang S, Du L, Huang X, Nie W, Wang L. The effectiveness of psychological interventions on diabetes distress and glycemic level in adults with type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. BMC Psychiatry 2024;24:660                                                                                            |
| 438. | Gutiérrez-Domingo T, Farhane-Medina NZ, Villaécija J, et al. Effectiveness of mindfulness-based interventions with respect to psychological and biomedical outcomes in young people with type 1 diabetes: a systematic review. Healthcare (Basel) 2024;12:1876                                                                     |
| 439. | Ngan HY, Chong YY, Chien WT. Effects of mindfulness- and acceptance-based interventions on diabetes distress and glycaemic level in people with diabetes: a systematic review. Diabetes Complications 2024;38:108878                                                                                                               |
| 440. | Roddy MK, Spieker AJ, Nelson LA, et al. Well-being outcomes of a family-focused intervention for persons with type 2 diabetes and support persons: main, mediated, and subgroup effects from the FAMS 2.0 RCT. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2023;204:110921                                                                             |
| 441. | Hessler DM, Fisher L, Guzman S, et al. EMBARK: a randomized, controlled trial comparing three approaches to reducing diabetes distress and improving HbA1c in adults with type 1 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2024;47:1370–1378                                                                                                         |
| 442. | Wicaksana AL, Apriliyasari RW, Tsai P-S. Effect of self-help interventions on psychological, glycemic, and behavioral outcomes in patients with diabetes: a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Int J Nurs Stud 2024;149:104626                                                                                         |
| 443. | Fisher L, Hessler D, Glasgow RE, et al. REDEEM: a pragmatic trial to reduce diabetes distress. Diabetes Care 2013;36:2551–2558                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| 444. | Tay JHT, Jiang Y, Hong J, He H, Wang W. Effectiveness of lay-led, group-based self-management interventions to improve glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c), self-efficacy, and emergency visit rates among adults with type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Int J Nurs Stud 2021;113:103779                             |
| 445. | DiNardo MM, Greco C, Phares AD, et al. Effects of an integrated mindfulness intervention for veterans with diabetes distress: a randomized controlled trial. BMJ Open Diabetes Res Care 2022;10:e002631                                                                                                                            |
| 446. | Lutes LD, Cummings DM, Littlewood K, et al. A tailored cognitive-behavioural intervention produces comparable reductions in regimen-related distress in adults with type 2 diabetes regardless of insulin use: 12-month outcomes from the COMRADE trial. Can J Diabetes 2020;44:530–536                                            |
| 447. | Friis AM, Johnson MH, Cutfield RG, Consedine NS. Kindness Matters: a randomized controlled trial of a mindful self-compassion intervention improves depression, distress, and HbA1c among patients with diabetes. Diabetes Care 2016;39:1963–1971                                                                                  |
| 448. | Canha D, McMahon V, Schmitz S, et al. The effect of automated insulin delivery system use on diabetes distress in people with type 1 diabetes and their caregivers: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Diabet Med 2025;42:e15503                                                                                               |
| 449. | Roos T, Hermanns N, Groß C, Kulzer B, Haak T, Ehrmann D. Effect of automated insulin delivery systems on person-reported outcomes in people with diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. EClinicalMedicine 2024;76:102852                                                                                                 |
| 450. | Lin EHB, Von Korff M, Alonso J, et al. Mental disorders among persons with diabetes-results from the World Mental Health Surveys. J Psychosom Res 2008;65:571–580                                                                                                                                                                  |
| 451. | Mersha AG, Tollosa DN, Bagade T, Eftekhari P. A bidirectional relationship between diabetes mellitus and anxiety: a systematic review and meta-analysis. J Psychosom Res 2022;162:110991                                                                                                                                           |
| 452. | Gonder-Frederick LA, Schmidt KM, Vajda KA, et al. Psychometric properties of the hypoglycemia fear survey-ii for adults with type 1 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2011;34:801–806                                                                                                                                                        |
| 453. | Wild D, v Maltzahn R, Brohan E, Christensen T, Clauson P, Gonder-Frederick L. A critical review of the literature on fear of hypoglycemia in diabetes: implications for diabetes complications 2024;38:108878                                                                                                                      |
| 454. | Alazmi A, Bashiru MB, Viktor S, Erjavec M. Psychological variables and lifestyle in children with type 1 diabetes and their parents: a systematic review. Clin Child Psychol Psychiatry 2024;29:1174–1194                                                                                                                          |
| 455. | Zhang L, Xu H, Liu L, et al. Related factors associated with fear of hypoglycemia in parents of children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes—a systematic review. J Pediatr Nurs 2022;66:125–135                                                                                                                                  |
| 456. | Smith KJ, Béland M, Clyde M, et al. Association of diabetes with anxiety: a systematic review and meta-analysis. J Psychosom Res 2013;74:89–99                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| 457. | Zambanini A, Newson RB, Maisey M, Feher MD. Injection related anxiety in insulin-treated diabetes. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 1999;46:239–246                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| 458. | American Psychiatric Association. Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders: DSM-5. Washington, DC, American Psychiatric Association, 2013                                                                                                                                                                             |
| 459. | Mollema ED, Snoek FJ, Adèr HJ, Heine RJ, van der Ploeg HM. Insulin-treated diabetes patients with fear of self-injecting or fear of self-testing: psychological comorbidity and general well-being. J Psychosom Res 2001;51:665–672                                                                                                |
| 460. | Kemp CG, Johnson LCM, Sagar R, et al. Effect of a collaborative care model on anxiety symptoms among patients with depression and diabetes in India: the INDEPENDENT randomized clinical trial. Gen Hosp Psychiatry 2022;74:39–45                                                                                                  |
| 461. | Abbas Q, Latif S, Ayaz Habib H, et al. Cognitive behavior therapy for diabetes distress, depression, health anxiety, quality of life and treatment adherence among patients with type-II diabetes mellitus: a randomized control trial. BMC Psychiatry 2023;23:86                                                                  |
| 462. | Talbo MK, Katz A, Hill L, Peters TM, Yale J-F, Brazeau A-S. Effect of diabetes technologies on the fear of hypoglycemia among people living with type 1 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. EClinicalMedicine 2023;62:102119                                                                                          |
| 463. | Martyn-Nemeth P, Duffecy J, Quinn L, et al. FREE: a randomized controlled feasibility trial of a cognitive behavioral therapy and technology-assisted intervention to reduce fear of hypoglycemia in young adults with type 1 diabetes. J Psychosom Res 2024;181:111679                                                            |
| 464. | Wulandari N, Lamuri A, van Hasselt F, Feenstra T, Taxis K. The burden of depression among patients with type 2 diabetes: an umbrella review of systematic reviews. J Diabetes Complications 2025;39:109004                                                                                                                         |
| 465. | Chen Z, Wang J, Carru C, Coradduzza D, Li Z. The prevalence of depression among parents of children/adolescents with type 1 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne) 2023;14:1095729                                                                                                           |
| 466. | Damilano CP, Hong KMC, Glick BA, Kamboj MK, Hoffman RP. Diabetes distress, depression, and future glycemic control among adolescents with type 1 diabetes. J Pediatr Endocrinol Metab 2025;38:311–317                                                                                                                              |
| 467. | Tu Q, Hyun K, Lin S, et al. Individual and joint effects of diabetes and depression on incident cardiovascular diseases and all-cause mortality: results from a population-based cohort study. J Diabetes Complications 2024;38:108878                                                                                             |

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf from Downloaded




# Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being

# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

disorders in patients with type 2 diabetes. Dia- 482. Seddigh S, Bagheri S, Sharif N, Moravej H, Hadian Shirazi Z. The effect of yoga therapy directed by virtual training on depression of adolescent girls with type 1 diabetes: a randomized controlled trial. J Diabetes Metab Disord 2023;22:1273–1281 DOI: 10.1093/nutrit/nuaf072

469. Rubin RR, Ma Y, Marrero DG, et al.; Diabetes Prevention Program Research Group. Elevated depression symptoms, antidepressant medicine use, and risk of developing diabetes during the diabetes prevention program. Diabetes Care 2008; 31:420–426

470. Zheng C, Yin J, Wu L, et al. Association between depression and diabetes among American adults using NHANES data from 2005 to 2020. Sci Rep 2024;14:27735

471. Farooqi A, Gillies C, Sathanapally H, et al. A systematic review and meta-analysis to compare the prevalence of depression between people with and without type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Prim Care Diabetes 2022;16:1–10

472. Monaghan M, Mara CA, Kichler JC, et al. Multisite examination of depression screening scores and correlates among adolescents and young adults with type 2 diabetes. Can J Diabetes 2021;45:411–416

473. Rosas CE, Talavera GA, Roesch SC, et al. Randomized trial of an integrated care intervention among Latino adults: sustained effects on diabetes management. Transl Behav Med 2024;14:310–318

474. Lu X, Yang D, Liang J, et al. Effectiveness of intervention program on the change of glycaemic control in diabetes with depression patients: a meta-analysis of randomized controlled studies. Prim Care Diabetes 2021;15:428–434

475. Ellis D, Carcone AI, Templin T, et al. Moderating effect of depression on glycemic control in an ehealth intervention among black youth with type 1 diabetes: findings from a multicenter randomized controlled trial. JMIR Diabetes 2024;9:e55165

476. Li Y, Buys N, Ferguson S, et al. The evaluation of cognitive-behavioral therapy-based intervention on type 2 diabetes patients with comorbid metabolic syndrome: a randomized controlled trial. Diabetol Metab Syndr 2023;15:158

477. Fisher V, Li WW, Malabu U. The effectiveness of mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) on the mental health, HbA1C, and mindfulness of diabetes patients: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Appl Psychol Health Well Being 2023;15:1733–1749

478. Ajele KW, Deacon E. Targeting depression and diabetes comorbidity: a generalization meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials on cognitive-behavioural therapy efficacy. Prim Care Diabetes 2025;19:93–102

479. Varela-Moreno E, Carreira Soler M, Guzmán-Parra J, Jódar-Sánchez F, Mayoral-Cleries F, Anarte-Ortíz MT. Effectiveness of eHealth-based psychological interventions for depression treatment in patients with type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus: a systematic review. Front Psychol 2021;12:746217

480. Tavares Franquez R, Del Grossi Moura M, Cristina Ferreira McClung D, et al. E-Health technologies for treatment of depression, anxiety and emotional distress in person with diabetes mellitus: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2023;203:110854

481. Koning E, Grigolon RB, Breda V, et al. The effect of lifestyle interventions on depressive symptom severity in individuals with type-2 diabetes: a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. J Psychosom Res 2023;173:111445

482. Seddigh S, Bagheri S, Sharif N, Moravej H, Hadian Shirazi Z. The effect of yoga therapy directed by virtual training on depression of adolescent girls with type 1 diabetes: a randomized controlled trial. J Diabetes Metab Disord 2023;22:1273–1281 DOI: 10.1093/nutrit/nuaf072

483. Saha CK, Shubrook JH, Guyton Hornsby W, et al. Program ACTIVE II: 6- and 12-month outcomes of a treatment approach for major depressive disorder in adults with type 2 diabetes. J Diabetes Complications 2024;38:108666

484. Chen X, Zhao P, Wang W, Guo L, Pan Q. The antidepressant effects of GLP-1 receptor agonists: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Am J Geriatr Psychiatry 2024;32:117–127

485. Pierret ACS, Mizuno Y, Saunders P, et al. Glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonists and mental health: a systematic review and meta-analysis. JAMA Psychiatry 2025;82:643–653

486. Pinhas-Hamiel O, Hamiel U, Levy-Shraga Y. Eating disorders in adolescents with type 1 diabetes: challenges in diagnosis and treatment. World J Diabetes 2015;6:517–526

487. Niemelä PE, Leppänen HA, Voutilainen A, et al. Prevalence of eating disorder symptoms in people with insulin-dependent diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Eat Behav 2024;53:101863

488. Dziewa M, Banka B, Herbet M, Pia Chmiel I. Eating disorders and diabetes: ˛tkowska-dual challenge. Nutrients 2023;15:3955

489. Dean YE, Motawea KR, Aslam M, et al. Association between type 1 diabetes mellitus and eating disorders: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Endocrinol Diabetes Metab 2024;7:e473

490. Beam AB, Wiebe DJ. Subtypes of insulin restriction in diabetes management: a systematic review. Curr Diab Rep 2025;25:20

491. Garrido-Bueno M, Núñez-Sánchez M, García-Lozano MS, Fagundo-Rivera J, Romero-Alvero A, Fernández-León P. Effects of body image and self-concept on the management of type 1 diabetes mellitus in adolescents and young adults: a systematic review. Healthcare (Basel) 2025;13:1425

492. Abbott S, Dindol N, Tahrani AA, Piya MK. Binge eating disorder and night eating syndrome in adults with type 2 diabetes: a systematic review. J Eat Disord 2018;6:36

493. Weinger K, Beverly EA. Barriers to achieving glycemic targets: who omits insulin and why? Diabetes Care 2010;33:450–452

494. Priesterroth L-S, Grammes J, Kubiak T. Subtypes of disordered eating and their diabetes-related and psychosocial concomitants in adults with type 1 diabetes. J Diabetes Complications 2025;39:109067

495. Araia E, King RM, Pouwer F, Speight J, Hendrieckx C. Psychological correlates of disordered eating in youth with type 1 diabetes: results from diabetes MILES Youth-Australia. Pediatr Diabetes 2020;21:664–672

496. Pekin C, McHale M, Seymour M, et al. Psychopathology and eating behaviour in people with type 2 diabetes referred for bariatric surgery. Eat Weight Disord 2022;27:3627–3635

497. Freitag AC, Koller OG, Menezes VM, Luft VC, de Almeida JC. Emotional and uncontrolled eating behaviors are associated with poorer glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes. Nutr Res 2025;140:93–101

498. Garcia-Poblet M, Sospedra I, Martinez-Sanz JM. The association between psychological distress and disordered eating behavior in young people with type 1 diabetes: a systematic review. Nutr Rev. 16 June 2025 [Epub ahead of print]. DOI: 10.1093/nutrit/nuaf072

499. Mateo K, Greenberg B, Valenzuela J. Disordered eating behaviors and eating disorders in youth with type 2 diabetes: a systematic review. Diabetes Spectr 2024;37:342–348

500. Julceus EF, Liese AD, Alfalki AM, et al. The association of levels of food insecurity and disordered eating behaviors among youth and young adults with diabetes: the SEARCH for Diabetes in Youth Study. Int J Eat Disord 2025;58:1039–1047

501. Markowitz JT, Antisdel JE, Anderson BJ, Laffel LMB. Brief screening tool for disordered eating in diabetes: internal consistency and external validity in a contemporary sample of pediatric patients with type 1 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2010;33:495–500

502. Zuijdwijk CS, Pardy SA, Dowden JJ, Dominic AM, Bridger T, Newhook LA. The mSCOFF for screening disordered eating in pediatric type 1 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2014;37:e26-27–e27

503. Yanovski SZ, Marcus MD, Wadden TA, Walsh BT. The Questionnaire on Eating and Weight Patterns-5: an updated screening instrument for binge eating disorder. Int J Eat Disord 2015;48:259–261

504. Gormally J, Black S. Eating Scale [PsychTESTS dataset]. APA PsycTests. Accessed 8 September 2025. Available from https://psycnet.apa.org/doiLanding?doi=10.1037%2Ft08303-000

505. Allison KC, Stunkard AJ. (2006). Night Eating Questionnaire. (NEQ) [Database record]. APA PsycTests. Accessed 8 September 2025. Available from https://psycnet.apa.org/doiLanding?doi=10.1037%2Ft62905-000

506. Zaremba N, Watson A, Kan C, et al. Multidisciplinary healthcare teams’ challenges and strategies in supporting people with type 1 diabetes to recover from disordered eating. Diabet Med 2020;37:1992–2000

507. Peterson CM, Fischer S, Young-Hyman D. Topical review: a comprehensive risk model for disordered eating in youth with type 1 diabetes. J Pediatr Psychol 2015;40:385–390

508. Banting R, Randle-Phillips C. A systematic review of psychological interventions for comorbid type 1 diabetes mellitus and eating disorders. Diabetes Management 2018;8:1–18

509. Priesterroth L, Grammes J, Clauter M, Kubiak T. Diabetes technologies in people with type 1 diabetes mellitus and disordered eating: a systematic review on continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion, continuous glucose monitoring and automated insulin delivery. Diabet Med 2021;38:e14581

510. Hennekes MHCL, Haugvik S, de Wit M, et al. Diabetes Body Project: acute effects of an eating disorder prevention program for young women with type 1 diabetes. A multinational randomized controlled trial. Diabetes Care 2025;48:220–225

511. Jones CJ, Read R, O’Donnell N, et al. PRIORITY Trial: results from a feasibility randomized controlled trial of a psychoeducational intervention for parents to prevent disordered eating in children and young people with type 1 diabetes. Diabet Med 2024;41:e15263



diabetesjournals.org/care
# Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being

S129

1. Stadler M, Zaremba N, Harrison A, et al. Safety of a co-designed cognitive behavioural therapy intervention for people with type 1 diabetes and eating disorders (STEADY): a feasibility randomised controlled trial. Lancet HealthEur 2025;50:101205
2. Traviss-Turner G, Bowes E, Hill A, et al. Providing online guided self-help for the management of binge eating in adults with type 2 diabetes: the POSE-D pilot study and process evaluation. Br J Nutr 2024;132:1542–1552
3. van Bloemendaal L, IJzerman RG, Ten Kulve JS, et al. GLP-1 receptor activation modulates appetite- and reward-related brain areas in humans. Diabetes 2014;63:4186–4196
4. Aoun L, Almardini S, Saliba F, et al. GLP-1 receptor agonists: a novel pharmacotherapy for binge eating (binge eating disorder and bulimia nervosa)? A systematic review. J Clin Transl Endocrinol 2024;35:100333
5. Jackson CA, Fleetwood K, Kerssens J, Smith DJ, Mercer S, Wild SH. Incidence of type 2 diabetes in people with a history of hospitalization for major mental illness in Scotland, 2001-2015: a retrospective cohort study. Diabetes Care 2019;42:1879–1885
6. Fleetwood KJ, Wild SH, Licence KAM, et al.; Scottish Diabetes Research Network Epidemiology Group. Severe mental illness and type 2 diabetes outcomes and complications: a nationwide cohort study. Diabetes Care 2023;46:1363–1371
7. Pillinger T, McCutcheon RA, Vano L, et al. Comparative effects of 18 antipsychotics on metabolic function in patients with schizophrenia, predictors of metabolic dysregulation, and association with psychopathology: a systematic review and network meta-analysis. Lancet Psychiatry 2020;7:64–77
8. Zhang Y, Liu Y, Su Y, et al. The metabolic side effects of 12 antipsychotic drugs used for the treatment of schizophrenia on glucose: a network meta-analysis. BMC Psychiatry 2017;17:373
9. American Diabetes Association; American Psychiatric Association; American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists; North American Association for the Study of Obesity. Consensus development conference on antipsychotic drugs and obesity and diabetes. Diabetes Care 2004;27:596–601
10. Mulligan K, McBain H, Lamontagne-Godwin F, et al. Barriers to effective diabetes management—a survey of people with severe mental illness. BMC Psychiatry 2018;18:165
11. Nadal IP, Cliffton C, Tolani E, et al. Eliciting the mechanisms of action of care navigators in the management of type 2 diabetes in people with severe mental illness: a qualitative study. Diabet Med 2022;39:e14894
12. Ojo O, Kalocsányiová E, McCrone P, Elliott H, Milligan W, Gkaintatzi E. Non-pharmacological interventions for type 2 diabetes in people living with severe mental illness: results of a systematic review and meta-analysis. Int J Environ Res Public Health 2024;21:423
13. Schnitzer K, Cather C, Zvonar V, et al. Patient experience and predictors of improvement in a group behavioral and educational intervention for individuals with diabetes and serious mental illness: mixed methods case study. J Particip Med 2021;13:e21934
14. Seminer A, Mulihano A, O’Brien C, et al. Cardioprotective glucose-lowering agents and dementia risk: a systematic review and meta-analysis. JAMA Neurol 2025;82:450–460
15. Cai Y-H, Wang Z, Feng L-Y, Ni G-X. Effect of exercise on the cognitive function of older patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Front Hum Neurosci 2022;16:876935
16. Anothaisintawee T, Reutrakul S, Van Cauter E, Thakkinstian A. Sleep disturbances compared to traditional risk factors for diabetes development: systematic review and meta-analysis. Sleep Med Rev 2016;30:11–24
17. Liu H, Zhu H, Lu Q, et al. Sleep features and the risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Ann Med 2025;57:2447422
18. Zhang X, Zhang R, Cheng L, et al. The effect of sleep impairment on gestational diabetes mellitus: a systematic review and meta-analysis of cohort studies. Sleep Med 2020;74:267–277
19. Monzon AD, Patton SR, Koren D. Childhood diabetes and sleep. Pediatr Pulmonol 2022;57:1835–1850
20. Lee SWH, Ng KY, Chin WK. The impact of sleep amount and sleep quality on glycemic control in type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Sleep Med Rev 2017;31:91–101
21. Al-Gadi IS, Streisand R, Tully C, et al. Up all night? Sleep disruption in parents of young children newly diagnosed with type 1 diabetes. Pediatr Diabetes 2022;23:815–819
22. Macaulay GC, Boucher SE, Yogarajah A, Galland BC, Wheeler BJ. Sleep and night-time caregiving in parents of children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes mellitus—a qualitative study. Behav Sleep Med 2020;18:622–636
23. Reutrakul S, Thakkinstian A, Anothaisintawee T, et al. Sleep characteristics in type 1 diabetes and associations with glycemic control: systematic review and meta-analysis. Sleep Med 2016;23:26–45
24. Khalil M, Power N, Graham E, Deschênes SS, Schmitz N. The association between sleep and diabetes outcomes —a systematic review. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2020;161:108035
25. Denic-Roberts H, Costacou T, Orchard TJ. Subjective sleep disturbances and glycemic control in adults with long-standing type 1 diabetes: the Pittsburgh’s Epidemiology of Diabetes Complications study. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2016;119:1–12
26. Fallahi A, Jamil DI, Karimi EB, Baghi V, Gheshlagh RG. Prevalence of obstructive sleep apnea in patients with type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Diabetes Metab Syndr 2019;13:2463–2468
27. Schipper SBJ, Van Veen MM, Elders PJM, et al. Sleep disorders in people with type 2 diabetes and associated health outcomes: a review of the literature. Diabetologia 2021;64:2367–2377
28. Bener A, Al-Hamaq AOAA, Agan AF, Öztürk M, Ömer A. The prevalence of restless legs syndrome and comorbid condition among patients with type 2 diabetic mellitus visiting primary healthcare. J Family Med Prim Care 2019;8:3814–3820

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf from Downloaded




# Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being

# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

1. Modarresnia L, Golgiri F, Madani NH, Emami Z, Tanha K. Restless legs syndrome in Iranian people with type 2 diabetes mellitus: the role in quality of life and quality of sleep. J Clin Sleep Med 2018;14:223–228
2. Manodpitipong A, Saetung S, Nimitphong H, et al. Night-shift work is associated with poorer glycaemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes. J Sleep Res 2017;26:764–772
3. El Tayeb I, El Saghier E, Ramadan B. Impact of shift work on glycemic control in insulin treated diabetics Dar El Chefa Hospital, Egypt 2014. Int J Diabetes Res 2014;3:15–21
4. Itani O, Kaneita Y, Tokiya M, et al. Short sleep duration, shift work, and actual days taken off work are predictive life-style risk factors for new-onset metabolic syndrome: a seven-year cohort study of 40,000 male workers. Sleep Med 2017;39:87–94
5. Lecube A, Simó R, Pallayova M, et al. Pulmonary function and sleep breathing: two new targets for type 2 diabetes care. Endocr Rev 2017;38:550–573
6. Herth J, Sievi NA, Schmidt F, Kohler M. Effects of continuous positive airway pressure therapy on glucose metabolism in patients with obstructive sleep apnoea and type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Eur Respir Rev 2023;32:230083
7. Yang R, Zhang L, Guo J, et al. Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists for obstructive sleep apnea in patients with obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus: a systematic review and meta-analysis. J Transl Med 2025;23:389
8. Malhotra A, Grunstein RR, Fietze I, et al.; SURMOUNT-OSA Investigators. Tirzepatide for the treatment of obstructive sleep apnea and obesity. N Engl J Med 2024;391:1193–1205
9. Tan X, van Egmond L, Chapman CD, Cedernaes J, Benedict C. Aiding sleep in type 2 diabetes: therapeutic considerations. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2018;6:60–68
10. Carreon SA, Cao VT, Anderson BJ, Thompson DI, Marrero DG, Hilliard ME. ‘I don’t sleep through the night’: qualitative study of sleep in type 1 diabetes. Diabet Med 2022;39:e14763
11. Hood KK, Schneider-Utaka AK, Reed ZW, et al.; PEDAP Trial Study Group. Patient reported outcomes (PROs) and user experiences of young children with type 1 diabetes using t:slim X2 insulin pump with control-IQ technology. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2024;208:111114
12. Cobry EC, Hamburger E, Jaser SS. Impact of the hybrid closed-loop system on sleep and quality of life in youth with type 1 diabetes and their parents. Diabetes Technol Ther 2020;22:794–800
13. Franceschi R, Mozzillo E, Di Candia F, et al. A systematic review on the impact of commercially available hybrid closed loop systems on psychological outcomes in youths with type 1 diabetes and their parents. Diabet Med 2023;40:e15099
14. Kothari V, Cardona Z, Chirakalwasan N, Anothaisintawee T, Reutrakul S. Sleep interventions and glucose metabolism: systematic review and meta-analysis. Sleep Med 2021;78:24–35
15. Groeneveld L, Beulens JW, Blom MT, et al. The effect of cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia on sleep and glycemic outcomes in people with type 2 diabetes: a randomized controlled trial. Sleep Med 2024;120:44–52

Kärppä M, Yardley J, Pinner K, et al. Long-term efficacy and tolerability of lemborexant compared with placebo in adults with insomnia disorder: results from the phase 3 randomized clinical trial SUNRISE2. Sleep 2020;43:zsaa123
Tsunoda T, Yamada M, Akiyama T, et al. The effects of ramelteon on glucose metabolism and sleep quality in type 2 diabetic patients with insomnia: a pilot prospective randomized controlled trial. J Clin Med Res 2016;8:878–887
Toi N, Inaba M, Kurajoh M, et al. Improvement of glycemic control by treatment for insomnia with suvorexant in type 2 diabetes mellitus. J Clin Transl Endocrinol 2019;15:37–44
Li M, Li D, Tang Y, et al. Effect of diabetes sleep education for T2DM who sleep after midnight: a pilot study from China. Metab Syndr Relat Disord 2018;16:13–19
Khandelwal D, Dutta D, Chittawar S, Kalra S. Diabetes distress and associations with demographic and clinical variables: a nationwide population-based registry study of 10,186 adults with type 1 diabetes in Norway. Diabetes Care 2024;47:126–131
McCarthy MM, Whittemore R, Gholson G, Grey M. Diabetes distress, depressive symptoms, and cardiovascular health in adults with type 1 diabetes. Nurs Res 2019;68:445–452
Lloyd CE, Pambianco G, Orchard TJ. Does diabetes-related distress explain the presence of depressive symptoms and/or poor self-care in individuals with type 1 diabetes? Diabet Med 2010;27:234–237
Chatwin H, Broadley M, Hendrieckx C, et al.; Hypo-RESOLVE Consortium. The impact of hypoglycaemia on quality of life among adults with type 1 diabetes: results from “YourSAY: hypoglycaemia.” J Diabetes Complications 2023;37:108232
Trief PM, Xing D, Foster NC, et al.; T1D Exchange Clinic Network. Depression in adults in the T1D Exchange Clinic Registry. Diabetes Care 2014;37:1563–1572
Schram MT, Baan CA, Pouwer F. Depression and quality of life in patients with diabetes: a systematic review from the European Depression in Diabetes (EDID) research consortium. Curr Diabetes Rev 2009;5:112–119
Schmitt A, McSharry J, Speight J, et al. Symptoms of depression and anxiety in adults with type 1 diabetes: associations with self-care behaviour, glycaemia and incident complications over four years—results from diabetes MILES-Australia. J Affect Disord 2021;282:803–811
Stahl-Pehe A, Selinski S, Bächle C, et al. Screening for generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) and associated factors in adolescents and young adults with type 1 diabetes: cross-sectional results of a Germany-wide population-based study. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2022;184:109197
Goebel-Fabbri AE, Fikkan J, Franko DL, Pearson K, Anderson BJ, Weinger K. Insulin restriction and associated morbidity and mortality in women with type 1 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2008;31:415–419
Galler A, Bollow E, Meusers M, et al.; German Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF) Competence Network Diabetes Mellitus. Comparison of glycemic and metabolic outcomes in patients with type 2 diabetes. J Osteopath Med 2022;122:319–326
Bruno BA, Choi D, Thorpe KE, Yu CH. Relationship among diabetes distress, decisional conflict, and self-management in adults with type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2024;14:5568
Hayashino Y, Okamura S, Tsujii S, Ishii H; Care Registry at Tenri Study Group. Diabetes distress is associated with future risk of progression of diabetic nephropathy in adults with type 2 diabetes: a prospective cohort study (Diabetes Distress and Care Registry at Tenri [DDCRT23]). Can J Diabetes 2023;47:519–524
Young CF, Mullin R, Moverley JA, Shubrook JH. Associations between diabetes-related distress and predicted cardiovascular complication risks in patients with type 2 diabetes. J Osteopath Med 2022;122:319–326

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf from Downloaded





diabetesjournals.org/care
# Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being

S131

conﬂict, quality of life, and patient perception

1. Deschênes SS, Burns RJ, Schmitz N. Associations between diabetes, major depressive disorder and generalized anxiety disorder comorbidity, and disability: findings from the 2012 Canadian Community Health Survey—Mental Health (CCHS-MH). J Psychosom Res 2015; 78:137–142
2. Hayashino Y, Okamura S, Tsujii S, Ishii H; Care Registry at Tenri Study Group. Association between diabetes distress and all-cause mortality in Japanese individuals with type 2 diabetes: a prospective cohort study (Diabetes Distress and Care Registry in Tenri [DDCRT 18]). Diabetologia 2018; 61:1978–1984
3. Lustman PJ, Anderson RJ, Freedland KE, de Groot M, Carney RM, Clouse RE. Depression and poor glycemic control: a meta-analytic review of the literature. Diabetes Care 2000; 23:934–942
4. Khuwaja AK, Lalani S, Dhanani R, Azam IS, Rafique G, White F. Anxiety and depression among outpatients with type 2 diabetes: a multi-centre study of prevalence and associated factors. Diabetol Metab Syndr 2010; 2:72
5. Chourpiliadis C, Zeng Y, Lovik A, et al. Metabolic profile and long-term risk of depression, anxiety, and stress-related disorders. JAMA Netw Open 2024; 7:e244525
6. Lin EHB, Rutter CM, Katon W, et al. Depression and advanced complications of diabetes: a prospective cohort study. Diabetes Care 2010; 33:264–269
7. Gonzalez JS, Peyrot M, McCarl LA, et al. Depression and diabetes treatment nonadherence: a meta-analysis. Diabetes Care 2008; 31:2398–2403
8. Fisher L, Glasgow RE, Strycker LA. The relationship between diabetes distress and clinical depression with glycemic control among patients with type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2010; 33:1034–1036
9. Ali S, Stone M, Skinner TC, Robertson N, Davies M, Khunti K. The association between depression and health-related quality of life in people with type 2 diabetes: a systematic literature review. Diabetes Metab Res Rev 2010; 26:75–89
10. Park M, Katon WJ, Wolf FM. Depression and risk of mortality in individuals with diabetes: a meta-analysis and systematic review. Gen Hosp Psychiatry 2013; 35:217–225
11. Lee LO, Grimm KJ, Spiro A, 3rd, Kubzansky LD. Neuroticism, worry, and cardiometabolic risk trajectories: findings from a 40-year study of men. J Am Heart Assoc 2022; 11:e022006
12. Deschênes SS, Burns RJ, Schmitz N. Trajectories of anxiety symptoms and associations with incident cardiovascular disease in adults with type 2 diabetes. J Psychosom Res 2018; 104:95–100
13. Karpha K, Biswas J, Nath S, Dhali A, Sarkhel S, Dhali GK. Factors affecting depression and anxiety in diabetic patients: a cross sectional study from a tertiary care hospital in Eastern India. Ann Med Surg (Lond) 2022; 84:104945
14. Dickerson F, Brown CH, Fang L, et al. Quality of life in individuals with serious mental illness and type 2 diabetes. Psychosomatics 2008; 49:109–114
15. Ter Braake JG, Fleetwood KJ, Vos RC, et al.; Scottish Diabetes Research Network Epidemiology Group. Cardiovascular risk management among individuals with type 2 diabetes and severe mental illness: a cohort study. Diabetologia 2024; 67:1029–1039
16. Munshi M, Grande L, Hayes M, et al. Cognitive dysfunction is associated with poor diabetes control in older adults. Diabetes Care 2006; 29:1794–1799
17. Lee S-H, Han K, Cho H, et al. Variability in metabolic parameters and risk of dementia: a nationwide population-based study. Alzheimers Res Ther 2018; 10:110
18. Olesen KKW, Thrane PG, Gyldenkerne C, et al. Diabetes and coronary artery disease as risk factors for dementia. Eur J Prev Cardiol 2024; 32:477–484
19. Cheng D, Zhao X, Yang S, Wang G, Ning G. Association between diabetic retinopathy and cognitive impairment: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Front Aging Neurosci 2021; 13:692911
20. Sinclair AJ, Girling AJ, Bayer AJ. Cognitive dysfunction in older subjects with diabetes mellitus: impact on diabetes self-management and use of care services. All Wales Research into Elderly (AWARE) Study. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2000; 50:203–212
21. Katon W, Lyles CR, Parker MM, Karter AJ, Huang ES, Whitmer RA. Association of depression with increased risk of dementia in patients with type 2 diabetes: the Diabetes and Aging Study. Arch Gen Psychiatry 2012; 69:410–417
22. Janssen J, Koekkoek PS, Biessels G-J, Kappelle JL, Rutten GEHM; Cog-ID study group. Depressive symptoms and quality of life after screening for cognitive impairment in patients with type 2 diabetes: observations from the Cog-ID cohort study. BMJ Open 2019; 9:e024696
23. Titcomb TJ, Richey P, Casanova R, et al. Association of type 2 diabetes mellitus with dementia-related and non-dementia-related mortality among postmenopausal women: a secondary competing risks analysis of the women’s health initiative. Alzheimers Dement 2024; 20:234–242
24. Davies MJ, Aroda VR, Collins BS, et al. Management of hyperglycemia in type 2 diabetes, 2022. A consensus report by the American Diabetes Association (ADA) and the European Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD). Diabetes Care 2022; 45:2753–2786

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S89/848861/dc26s005.pdf from Downloaded