
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026 S321

# 15. Management of Diabetes in Pregnancy: Standards of Care in Diabetes—2026

Diabetes Care 2026;49(Suppl. 1):S321–S338 | https://doi.org/10.2337/dc26-S015

The American Diabetes Association (ADA) “Standards of Care in Diabetes” includes the ADA’s current clinical practice recommendations and is intended to provide the components of diabetes care, general treatment goals and guidelines, and tools to evaluate quality of care. Members of the ADA Professional Practice Committee for Diabetes, an interprofessional expert committee, are responsible for updating the Standards of Care annually, or more frequently as warranted. For a detailed description of ADA standards, statements, and reports, as well as the evidence-grading system for ADA’s clinical practice recommendations and a full list of Professional Practice Committee members, please refer to Introduction and Methodology. Readers who wish to comment on the Standards of Care are invited to do so at professional.diabetes.org/SOC.

# DIABETES IN PREGNANCY

The prevalence of diabetes in pregnancy has been increasing in the U.S. in parallel with the worldwide epidemic of obesity. Not only is the prevalence of type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes increasing in individuals of reproductive age but there is also a dramatic increase in the reported rates of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM). Diabetes confers significantly greater maternal and fetal risk that is largely related to the degree of hyperglycemia but also is related to chronic complications and comorbidities of diabetes. In general, specific risks of diabetes in pregnancy include spontaneous abortion, fetal anomalies, preeclampsia, fetal demise, macrosomia, neonatal hypoglycemia, neonatal hyperbilirubinemia, and neonatal respiratory distress syndrome. In addition, exposure to hyperglycemia in utero increases the risks of obesity, hypertension, and type 2 diabetes in offspring later in life (1,2).

# Preconception Counseling Recommendations

1. Starting at puberty and continuing in all people with diabetes and childbearing potential, preconception counseling should be incorporated into routine diabetes care. A
2. Family planning should be discussed, and effective contraception (with consideration of long-acting, reversible contraception) should be prescribed and used until an individual’s treatment plan and A1C are optimized for pregnancy. A
3. Preconception counseling should address the importance of achieving glucose levels as close to normal as is safely possible without excessive hypoglycemia, ideally A1C &#x3C;6.5% (&#x3C;48 mmol/mol), to reduce the risk of congenital anomalies, preeclampsia, macrosomia, preterm birth, and other complications. A

*A complete list of members of the American Diabetes Association Professional Practice Committee for Diabetes can be found at https://doi.org/10.2337/dc26-SINT. Duality of interest information for each contributor is available at https://doi.org/10.2337/dc26-SDIS.

Suggested citation: American Diabetes Association Professional Practice Committee for Diabetes. 15. Management of diabetes in pregnancy: Standards of Care in Diabetes—2026. Diabetes Care 2026; 49(Suppl. 1):S321–S338

© 2025 by the American Diabetes Association. Readers may use this work for educational, noncommercial purposes if properly cited and unaltered. The version of record may be linked at https://diabetesjournals.org/care, but ADA permission is required to post this work on any third-party site or platform. This publication and its contents may not be reproduced, distributed, or used for text or data mining, machine learning, or similar technologies without prior written permission. Requests to reuse, adapt, or distribute this work may be sent to permissions@diabetes.org. More information is available at https://diabetesjournals.org/journals/pages/license.

2026 February 01 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S321/848846/dc26s015.pdf from Downloaded





# Management of Diabetes in Pregnancy

# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

# 15.4

Individuals with a history of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) should seek preconception screening for diabetes and preconception care to identify and treat hyperglycemia and prevent congenital malformations and other adverse maternal and fetal outcomes. In a systematic review and meta-analysis of observational studies, preconception care for pregnant individuals with preexisting diabetes was associated with lower A1C and reduced risks of congenital anomalies (given that organogenesis occurs primarily at 5–8 weeks of gestation), preeclampsia, and preterm birth (13–17).

Weight should be assessed at the preconception evaluation. Counseling on the specific risks of obesity in pregnancy and lifestyle interventions to prevent and treat obesity, including referral to a registered dietitian nutritionist (RDN), is recommended regardless of diabetes status (24). In a randomized trial of individuals with overweight or obesity and a history of GDM, weight loss prior to a subsequent pregnancy was associated with a lower risk of GDM recurrence, especially when weight loss was ≥5% (odds ratio [OR] 0.18, 95% CI 0.04–0.88) (25).

Preconception counseling for pregnant people with preexisting type 1 or type 2 diabetes is highly effective in reducing the risk of congenital malformations and decreasing the risk of preterm delivery and admission to neonatal intensive care units (NICU). Preconception counseling is also associated with reductions in perinatal mortality and small-for-gestational-age birth weight (3). A key point is the need to incorporate a question about plans for pregnancy into the routine primary and gynecologic care of people with diabetes.

There are opportunities at any health care visit to educate all adults and adolescents with diabetes and childbearing potential about the risks of unplanned pregnancies and about improved maternal and fetal outcomes with pregnancy planning (4). Education and counseling should be offered, even when individuals already use contraception or do not intend to conceive (5). Effective preconception counseling could avert substantial health and associated cost burdens related to the offspring (6).

Family planning should be discussed, including the benefits of long-acting, reversible contraception, and effective contraception should be prescribed and used until the individual is prepared and ready to become pregnant (7–12). All individuals with diabetes and childbearing potential should be informed about the importance of achieving and maintaining as near euglycemia as safely possible prior to conception and throughout pregnancy.

# Preconception Care Recommendations

# 15.5

Individuals with preexisting diabetes who are planning a pregnancy should ideally begin receiving interprofessional care prior to conception, which includes an endocrinology health care professional, maternal-fetal medicine specialist, registered dietitian nutritionist, and diabetes care and education specialist, when available. B

# 15.6

In addition to focused attention on achieving glycemic goals, a standard preconception care should be augmented with extra focus on nutrition, physical activity, diabetes self-care education, and screening for diabetes comorbidities and complications. B

# 15.7

Individuals with preexisting diabetes who are planning a pregnancy or who have become pregnant should be counseled on the risk of development of diabetic embryopathy, especially anencephaly, microcephaly, congenital heart disease, kidney anomalies, and caudal regression, directly proportional to elevations in A1C during the first 10 weeks of pregnancy (13).

Although observational studies are confounded by the association between elevated periconceptional A1C and other engagement in self-care behaviors, the quantity and consistency of data are convincing and support the recommendation to optimize glycemia prior to conception with an A1C &#x3C;6.5% (&#x3C;48 mmol/mol), as this is associated with the lowest risk of complications.

2026 February 01 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S321/848846/dc26s015.pdf from Downloaded





diabetesjournals.org/care
# Management of Diabetes in Pregnancy

and/or progression of diabetic retinopathy. Dilated eye examinations should occur ideally before pregnancy as well as in the first trimester, and then pregnant individuals should be monitored every trimester and for 1 year postpartum as indicated by the degree of retinopathy and as recommended by the eye care health care professional.

# Table 15.1—Checklist for preconception care for people with prediabetes, diabetes, or a history of gestational diabetes mellitus

Preconception education should include:

- Comprehensive nutrition assessment and recommendations for:
- Overweight and obesity or underweight
- Meal planning
- Correction of nutritional deficiencies
- Caffeine intake
- Safe food preparation technique
- Lifestyle recommendations for:
- Regular moderate exercise
- Avoidance of hyperthermia (hot tubs)
- Adequate sleep
- Comprehensive diabetes self-management education
- Counseling on diabetes in pregnancy per current standards, including natural history of insulin resistance in pregnancy and postpartum; preconception glycemic goals; avoidance of DKA or severe hyperglycemia; avoidance of severe hypoglycemia; progression of retinopathy in individuals with preexisting diabetes; PCOS (if applicable); fertility in people with diabetes; genetics of diabetes; risks to pregnancy including miscarriage, stillbirth, congenital malformations, macrosomia, preterm labor and delivery, hypertensive disorders in pregnancy
- Supplementation
- Folic acid supplement (400–800 μg/day routine)
- Appropriate use of over-the-counter medications and supplements

Health assessment and plan should include:

- General evaluation of overall health
- Evaluation of diabetes and its comorbidities and complications, including DKA or severe hyperglycemia; severe hypoglycemia/hypoglycemia unawareness; barriers to care; comorbidities such as hyperlipidemia, hypertension, MASLD, PCOS, and thyroid dysfunction; complications such as macrovascular disease in individuals with preexisting diabetes, nephropathy, neuropathy (including autonomic bowel and bladder dysfunction), and retinopathy
- Evaluation of obstetric or gynecologic history, including a history of cesarean section, congenital malformations or fetal loss, current methods of contraception, hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, postpartum hemorrhage, preterm delivery, previous macrosomia, Rh incompatibility, and thrombotic events (DVT/PE)
- Review of current medications and appropriateness during pregnancy

Screening should include:

- Diabetes complications and comorbidities, including comprehensive foot exam; comprehensive ophthalmologic exam; ECG in individuals starting at age 35 years who have cardiac signs or symptoms or risk factors and, if abnormal, further evaluation; lipid panel; serum creatinine; TSH; and urine albumin-to-creatinine ratio
- Anemia
- Genetic carrier status (based on history):
- Cystic fibrosis
- Sickle cell anemia
- Tay-Sachs disease
- Thalassemia
- Others if indicated
- Infectious disease (per ACOG guidelines)

Preconception plan should include:

- Immunizations (per ACOG guidelines) (203–205)
- Nutrition and medication plan to achieve glycemic goals prior to conception, including appropriate implementation of blood glucose monitoring, continuous glucose monitoring (if indicated and appropriate), and pump technology (if indicated and appropriate)
- Contraceptive plan to prevent pregnancy until glycemic goals are achieved
- Management plan for general health, gynecologic concerns, comorbid conditions, or complications, if present, including hypertension, nephropathy, retinopathy; Rh incompatibility; and thyroid dysfunction

The most important diabetes-specific component of preconception care is the attainment of glycemic goals prior to conception. Diabetes-specific counseling should include an explanation of the risks to mother and fetus related to pregnancies.

Created using information from American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) (5) and others (28,30). DKA, diabetic ketoacidosis; DVT/PE, deep vein thrombosis/pulmonary embolism; ECG, electrocardiogram; MASLD, metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease; PCOS, polycystic ovary syndrome; TSH, thyroid-stimulating hormone.

2026 February 01 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S321/848846/dc26s015.pdf Downloaded



Management of Diabetes in Pregnancy
Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

associated with diabetes and the ways to reduce risks, including glycemic goal setting, lifestyle and behavioral management, and medical nutrition therapy (3). Prior to conception, it is recommended to achieve glucose levels as close to normal as is safely possible without excessive hypoglycemia, ideally A1C &#x3C;6.5% (&#x3C;48 mmol/mol), and preconception glycemic goals should be achieved using therapies approved for use in pregnancy. Setting preconception glucose goals is helpful in guiding insulin dose adjustments. The following preconception glucose goals have been advised: preprandial glucose 80–110 mg/dL (4.4–6.1 mmol/L) and 2 h postprandial glucose &#x3C;155 mg/dL (&#x3C;8.6 mmol/L) (31). Prandial insulin dose should be reduced for postprandial glucose &#x3C;100 mg/dL (5.6 mmol/L).

For individuals with preexisting diabetes, the presence of microvascular complications is associated with higher risk of disease progression and adverse pregnancy outcomes (32). Diabetes-specific testing should include A1C, creatinine, and urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio. Special attention should be paid to the review of the medication list for potentially harmful drugs, e.g., ACE inhibitors (33), angiotensin receptor blockers (33), and lipid-lowering medications including statins in some cases (34). For individuals using medications that are not approved for use in pregnancy (such as some glucose-lowering, lipid-lowering, and antihypertensive agents), preconception care should include recommendations for when changes in medications should occur to stabilize the conditions and risk factors managed by these medications (such as glucose levels, weight, lipids, and blood pressure) on alternate therapies prior to pregnancy. Glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonists (GLP-1 RAs) and dual glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) and GLP-1 RAs should be discontinued prior to pregnancy, and contraception should be used while taking them (see section 9, “Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment”). The manufacturer prescribing information recommends discontinuation of semaglutide at least 2 months before a planned pregnancy due to its long half-life (35). No recommendation is included in the U.S. prescribing information for tirzepatide, although the Canadian manufacturer prescribing information recommends tirzepatide discontinuation at least 1 month before pregnancy (36). Importantly, before attempting conception, preconception glycemic goals should be achieved following discontinuation of GLP-1 RA therapy or dual GIP and GLP-1 RA therapy, with initiation and titration of insulin therapy when needed to achieve preconception glycemic goals.

# Insulin Physiology

Pregnancy in people with normal glucose metabolism is characterized by fasting glucose levels that are lower than those in the nonpregnant state due to insulin-independent glucose uptake by the fetus and placenta and by mild postprandial hyperglycemia and carbohydrate intolerance as a result of diabetogenic placental factors. Early pregnancy may be a time of enhanced insulin sensitivity and lower glucose levels and is followed by progressive insulin resistance in the second and third trimesters (38–40). Insulin resistance drops rapidly with the delivery of the placenta. In people with normal pancreatic function, insulin production is sufficient to meet the challenge of this physiological insulin resistance and to maintain normal glucose levels. However, in people with diabetes, hyperglycemia occurs if treatment is not adjusted appropriately.

# Recommendations

15.8 Fasting, preprandial, and postprandial blood glucose monitoring are recommended in individuals with diabetes in pregnancy to achieve optimal glucose levels. Glucose goals are fasting plasma glucose &#x3C;95 mg/dL (&#x3C;5.3 mmol/L) and either 1-h postprandial glucose &#x3C;140 mg/dL (&#x3C;7.8 mmol/L) or 2-h postprandial glucose &#x3C;120 mg/dL (&#x3C;6.7 mmol/L). B

15.9 Due to increased red blood cell turnover, A1C is slightly lower during pregnancy in people with and without diabetes. Ideally, the A1C goal in pregnancy is &#x3C;6% (&#x3C;42 mmol/mol) if this can be achieved without significant hypoglycemia, but the goal may be relaxed to &#x3C;7% (&#x3C;53 mmol/mol) if necessary to prevent hypoglycemia. B

15.10 Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) can help to achieve glycemic goals (e.g., time in range, time above range) A and A1C goal B in type 1 diabetes and pregnancy and may be beneficial for other types of diabetes in pregnancy. E

15.11 Recommend CGM to pregnant individuals with type 1 diabetes. A In conjunction with aims to achieve traditional pre- and postprandial glycemic goals, CGM can reduce the risk for large-for-gestational-age infants and neonatal hypoglycemia in pregnancy complicated by type 1 diabetes. A

| Table 15.2: Recommended Goals for Pregnant People with Type 1 or Type 2 Diabetes |                          |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------ |
| Parameter                                                                        | Goal                     |
| Fasting Plasma Glucose                                                           | <95 mg/dL (<5.3 mmol/L)  |
| 1-h Postprandial Glucose                                                         | <140 mg/dL (<7.8 mmol/L) |
| 2-h Postprandial Glucose                                                         | <120 mg/dL (<6.7 mmol/L) |

Lower limits are based on the mean of normal blood glucose in pregnancy (43) but do not apply to individuals with type 2 diabetes treated with nutrition alone. Hypoglycemia in pregnancy is as defined and discussed in Recommendations 6.10–6.19 (see section 6, “Glycemic).

2026 February 01 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S321/848846/dc26s015.pdf Downloaded



diabetesjournals.org/care
# Management of Diabetes in Pregnancy

# Table 15.2—Blood glucose goals in pregnancies associated with diabetes

| Glucose measurement                 | Blood glucose goal               |                                  |                            |
| ----------------------------------- | -------------------------------- | -------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| Type 1 diabetes or type 2 diabetes1 | GDM treated with insulin         | GDM not treated with insulin     |                            |
| Fasting glucose                     | 70–95 mg/dL (3.9–5.3 mmol/L)     | 70–95 mg/dL (3.9–5.3 mmol/L)     | <95 mg/dL (<5.3 mmol/L)    |
| 1-h postprandial glucose            | 110–140 mg/dL\* (6.1–7.8 mmol/L) | 110–140 mg/dL\* (6.1–7.8 mmol/L) | <140 mg/dL\* (<7.8 mmol/L) |
| 2-h postprandial glucose            | 100–120 mg/dL (5.6–6.7 mmol/L)   | 100–120 mg/dL (5.6–6.7 mmol/L)   | <120 mg/dL (<6.7 mmol/L)   |

Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) blood glucose goals shown are recommended by the Fifth International Workshop-Conference on Gestational Diabetes Mellitus2. Lower glucose limits do not apply to individuals with type 2 diabetes treated with nutrition alone. Aim for less stringent goals if these cannot be achieved without significant hypoglycemia, based on clinical experience and individualization of care.

*Optimal goal includes either a 1-h postprandial glucose level or 2-h postprandial glucose level within column of type of diabetes.

Goals, Hypoglycemia, and Hyperglycemic Crises. The most appropriate hypoglycemia threshold level in pregnancy has not been validated but has ranged from &#x3C;60 to &#x3C;70 mg/dL (&#x3C;3.3 to &#x3C;3.9 mmol/L) in the past. Current recommendations for hypoglycemia thresholds include blood glucose &#x3C;70 mg/dL (&#x3C;3.9 mmol/L) and sensor glucose &#x3C;63 mg/dL (&#x3C;3.5 mmol/L)3,4. These fasting or premeal and postprandial glucose values represent optimal levels if they can be achieved safely. In practice, it may be challenging for a person with type 1 diabetes to achieve these goals without hypoglycemia, particularly those with a history of recurrent hypoglycemia or impaired awareness of hypoglycemia. If an individual cannot achieve these goals without significant hypoglycemia, aim for less stringent goals based on clinical experience and individualization of care.

For individuals with GDM, the glucose goals recommended by the Fifth International Workshop-Conference on Gestational Diabetes Mellitus should be used2 (Table 15.2). For individuals found to have hyperglycemia less than overt diabetes on early pregnancy screening, the benefits of treatment remain uncertain, controversy exists regarding optimal management strategies, and professional society guidance is conflicting5,6. While hyperglycemia less than overt diabetes in early pregnancy has been associated with increased risk of adverse pregnancy and neonatal outcomes and higher risk of a later GDM diagnosis (see Recommendation 2.32b)7–11, it has not been established that universal treatment in early pregnancy (prior to the usual time of GDM diagnosis and treatment at 24–28 weeks’ gestation) is beneficial for all individuals in this group.

Most randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of treatment of early abnormal glucose have been underpowered for outcomes. One large multicenter RCT (Treatment of Booking Gestational Diabetes Mellitus [TOBOGM] trial), which enrolled pregnant individuals with at least one risk factor for hyperglycemia, administered early screening (mean 15.6 ± 2.5 weeks) for GDM with a 75-g OGTT12. Individuals who met World Health Organization criteria for GDM were randomized to receive early treatment or a repeat OGTT at 24–28 weeks (with deferred treatment if indicated). The first primary outcome measure was an adverse neonatal composite outcome including birth &#x3C;37 weeks, birth weight ≥4.5 kg, birth trauma, neonatal respiratory distress within 24 h of birth, phototherapy, stillbirth neonatal death, or shoulder dystocia. Early GDM treatment resulted in a modest improvement in the composite adverse neonatal outcome (24.9% early treatment vs. 30.5% control group, relative risk 0.82 [0.68–0.98]), although this was driven primarily by differences in rates of neonatal respiratory distress between groups that included neonates requiring ≥4 h of supplemental oxygen who may not have required a higher level of respiratory care. In prespecified subgroup analyses, there was a suggestion of more benefit among individuals who had the OGTT at &#x3C;14 weeks and among those with OGTT glycemic values in higher glycemic ranges12.

Subsequent secondary analyses have shed additional light on which subgroups may derive greatest benefit from treatment. Importantly, almost one-third of individuals randomized to observation demonstrated regression of GDM when retested at 24–28 weeks’ gestation. Pregnancy outcomes among participants with regression were similar to those of individuals without GDM13, and these individuals are therefore unlikely to benefit from treatment in this subgroup. While RCT data to guide clinical practice in this subgroup are lacking, it is possible that selective treatment of early pregnancy hyperglycemia within this subgroup would lead to more pronounced reductions in adverse pregnancy and neonatal outcomes.

2026 February 01 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S321/848846/dc26s015.pdf from Downloaded




# Management of Diabetes in Pregnancy

# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

Therefore, the benefits of treatment of early abnormal glucose metabolism remain uncertain. Nutrition counseling and periodic testing of fasting glucose levels (e.g., 3–4 times per week) are suggested. Testing frequency may proceed to daily, and treatment may be intensified, if fasting plasma glucose is predominantly ≥110 mg/dL (≥6.1 mmol/L) prior to 15 weeks of gestation. Individualized discussion of areas of uncertainty and the option to treat for fasting glucose ≥110 mg/dL (≥6.1 mmol/L) via shared decision-making is reasonable. When treatment for early abnormal glucose metabolism is initiated, fasting and postprandial glucose levels should be monitored and the standard glucose goals recommended in pregnancies associated with diabetes (Table 15.2) should be used.

# A1C in Pregnancy

In studies of individuals without preexisting diabetes, increasing A1C levels within the normal range are associated with adverse outcomes (59). In the Hyperglycemia and Adverse Pregnancy Outcome (HAPO) study, increasing levels of glycemia were also associated with worsening outcomes (21). Observational studies in preexisting diabetes and pregnancy show the lowest rates of adverse fetal outcomes in association with A1C &#x3C;6–6.5% (&#x3C;42–48 mmol/mol) early in gestation (14,15,17,60). Clinical trials have not evaluated the risks and benefits of achieving these goals, and treatment goals should account for the risk of maternal hypoglycemia in setting an individualized goal of &#x3C;6% (&#x3C;42 mmol/mol) to &#x3C;7% (&#x3C;53 mmol/mol). Due to physiological increases in red blood cell turnover, A1C levels fall during normal pregnancy (61,62). Additionally, as A1C represents an integrated measure of glucose, it may not fully capture postprandial hyperglycemia, which drives macrosomia. Thus, although A1C may be useful, it should be used as a secondary measure of glycemia in pregnancy, after glucose monitoring.

In the second and third trimesters, A1C &#x3C;6% (&#x3C;42 mmol/mol) has the lowest risk of large-for-gestational-age infants (60,63,64), preterm delivery (65), and preeclampsia (1,66). Taking all of this into account, a goal of &#x3C;6% (&#x3C;42 mmol/mol) is optimal during pregnancy if it can be achieved without significant hypoglycemia, which, in addition to the usual adverse sequelae, may increase the risk of low birth weight (67,68).

# Continuous Glucose Monitoring in Pregnancy

The Continuous Glucose Monitoring in Pregnant Women With Type 1 Diabetes Trial (CONCEPTT) was an RCT of CGM in addition to standard care, including optimization of pre- and postprandial glucose goals, versus standard care for pregnant people with type 1 diabetes. It demonstrated the value of using real-time CGM in pregnant individuals with type 1 diabetes by showing a mild improvement in A1C and significant improvements in the maternal glucose time in range (TIR) and time above range (TAR), without an increase in hypoglycemia, and reductions in large-for-gestational-age births, length of infant hospital stays, and severe neonatal hypoglycemia (69).

An observational cohort study that evaluated the glycemic variables reported using CGM systems found that lower mean glucose, lower SD, and higher percentage of TIR were associated with lower risks of large-for-gestational-age births and other adverse neonatal outcomes (70). Data from one study suggest that use of the CGM-reported mean glucose is superior to use of estimated A1C, glucose management indicator, and other calculations to estimate A1C, given the changes to A1C that occur in pregnancy (71).

One RCT and several observational studies have found that a 5% increase in CGM TIR was associated with improvements in neonatal morbidity, including large-for-gestational-age births and neonatal intensive care unit admissions (69,70,72,73). CGM TIR can be used for assessment of glycemic outcomes in people with type 1 diabetes, but it does not provide actionable data to address fasting and postprandial hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia. The cost of CGM use by pregnant individuals with type 1 diabetes is offset by improved maternal and neonatal outcomes (74).

At this time, there are insufficient data to support the use of CGM in all people with type 2 diabetes or GDM (75–79). One RCT evaluating use of CGM or standard BGM in GDM found no significant difference in the primary end point, a composite of adverse perinatal and neonatal outcomes (79). TIR was lower in the CGM group, though CGM use was preferred by participants. In contrast, another RCT evaluating use of CGM or standard BGM in GDM found no significant difference in the primary end point, a composite of adverse perinatal and neonatal outcomes (79). Goals for sensor glucose ranges in pregnancy are:

2026 February 01 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S321/848846/dc26s015.pdf from Downloaded





diabetesjournals.org/care
# Management of Diabetes in Pregnancy

• Goal sensor glucose range 63–140 mg/dL may not be sufficient to achieve glycemic goals. B Other oral and noninsulin injectable glucose-lowering medications lack long-term safety data and are not recommended. E

• (3.5–7.8 mmol/L): TIR, goal >70% Time below range (TBR) (&#x3C;63 mg/dL [&#x3C;3.5 mmol/L]): level 1 TBR, goal &#x3C;4% TBR (&#x3C;54 mg/dL [&#x3C;3.0 mmol/L]): level 2 TBR, goal &#x3C;1% TAR (>140 mg/dL [>7.8 mmol/L]): TAR, goal &#x3C;25%

Goals for time spent in each range are specific for pregnant individuals with type 1 diabetes.

# MANAGEMENT OF DIABETES IN PREGNANCY

# Recommendations

15.14 Nutrition counseling before and during pregnancy should promote an eating pattern including fruits, vegetables, legumes, whole grains, nuts, seeds, fish, and other lean protein, which will provide a balance of macronutrients and healthy n-3 fatty acids. C

15.15 Lifestyle behavior change is an essential component of management of GDM and may suffice as treatment for many individuals. Insulin should be added if needed to achieve glycemic goals. A

15.16 Telehealth visits used in combination with in-person visits for pregnant people with GDM can improve outcomes compared with standard in-person care alone. A

15.17 Insulin should be used to manage type 1 diabetes in pregnancy A and is the preferred agent for the management of GDM A and type 2 diabetes in pregnancy. B

15.18 Either multiple daily injections or insulin pump technology can be used in pregnancy complicated by type 1 diabetes. C

15.19 Automated insulin delivery (AID) systems with pregnancy-specific glucose targets are recommended for pregnant individuals with type 1 diabetes. A

15.20 AID systems without pregnancy-specific glucose targets or a pregnancy-specific algorithm may be considered for select pregnant individuals with type 1 diabetes when used with assistive techniques and working with experienced health care teams. B

15.21 Metformin and glyburide, individually or in combination, should not be used as first-line agents for management of diabetes in pregnancy, as both cross the placenta to the fetus A and.

# Medical Nutrition Therapy

The management of pregnancies associated with diabetes includes appropriate nutrition, lifestyle and behavior management, physical activity goals, and pharmacotherapy to support the maternal, fetal, and placental needs and reach glycemic goals regardless of the diabetes type.

In people with preexisting diabetes, glycemic goals are usually achieved through a combination of insulin administration and medical nutrition therapy. Because glycemic goals in pregnant individuals are stricter than in nonpregnant individuals, it is important that pregnant people with diabetes consume consistent amounts of carbohydrates to match their prandial insulin dosages or use insulin-to-carbohydrate ratios to match prandial insulin dosages to the carbohydrates being consumed in order to minimize postprandial hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia.

Referral to an RDN is important to establish a food plan and to determine weight gain goals. The quality of the carbohydrates should be evaluated. A subgroup analysis of the CONCEPTT study demonstrated that the food choices of individuals planning pregnancy and currently pregnant assessed during the run-in phase prior to randomization were characterized by high-fat, low-fiber, and poor-quality carbohydrate intakes. Fruit and vegetable consumption was inadequate, with one in four participants at risk for micronutrient deficiencies, highlighting the importance of medical nutrition therapy (82).

An expert panel on nutrition in pregnancy and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services recommend a balance of macronutrients. An eating pattern that severely restricts any macronutrient class should be avoided, specifically the ketogenic eating pattern that lacks carbohydrates, the paleo eating pattern because of dairy restriction, and any eating pattern characterized by excess saturated fats (83).

# Lifestyle and Behavioral Management

Although there is some heterogeneity, many RCTs and a Cochrane review suggest that the risk of GDM may be reduced by appropriate nutrition, exercise, and lifestyle changes.

2026 February 01 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S321/848846/dc26s015.pdf Downloaded



Management of Diabetes in Pregnancy
# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

Lifestyle counseling, particularly when interventions are started during the first trimester or early in the second trimester (91–93). After diagnosis of GDM, treatment starts with medical nutrition therapy, physical activity, and weight management, depending on pregestational weight, as outlined in this section. Depending on the population, studies suggest that 70–85% of people diagnosed with GDM under Carpenter-Coustan criteria can manage GDM with lifestyle modification alone; it is anticipated that this proportion will be even higher if the lower International Association of the Diabetes and Pregnancy Study Groups (94) diagnostic thresholds are used.

# Pharmacologic Therapy

# Insulin

Insulin should be used to manage type 1 diabetes in pregnancy and is preferred for the management of type 2 diabetes in pregnancy and GDM. The physiology of pregnancy necessitates frequent titration of insulin to match changing requirements and underscores the importance of daily and frequent glucose monitoring. In early pregnancy, many people with type 1 diabetes will have lower insulin requirements and an increased risk for hypoglycemia (38). At around 16 weeks, insulin resistance begins to increase, and total daily insulin doses increase linearly by ∼5% per week through week 36. This usually results in a doubling of daily insulin dose compared with the prepregnancy requirement. While there is an increase in both basal and bolus insulin requirements, bolus insulin requirements take up a larger proportion of overall total daily insulin needs in individuals with preexisting diabetes as pregnancy progresses (39,40). The insulin requirement levels off toward the end of the third trimester. A rapid and significant reduction in insulin requirements may indicate the development of placental insufficiency (100), although data are conflicting (101).

Optimal glycemic goals are often easier to achieve during pregnancy with type 2 diabetes than with type 1 diabetes but can require much higher doses of insulin, sometimes necessitating concentrated insulin formulations. It is recommended that insulin management be performed with interprofessional team members with relevant expertise.

# Health Care Delivery for People With Diabetes in Pregnancy

As discussed in PRECONCEPTION CARE, team-based care is recommended either through a single specialized center (when available) or multiple centers with interprofessional team members as part of the care plan. None of the currently available human insulin preparations have been demonstrated to cross the placenta (102–107). Insulins studied in RCTs are preferred (108–110) over those studied in cohort studies (111), which are preferred over those studied in case reports only. Basal insulin options in pregnancy include insulin glargine (long-acting), NPH insulin (intermediate-acting), and insulin degludec (ultralong-acting). Insulin detemir (the only basal insulin with RCT data supporting its use during pregnancy) was removed from the market by the manufacturer and is no longer available. Observational studies of glargine use during pregnancy have not shown evidence of increased adverse fetal outcomes with use of insulin glargine versus NPH insulin (111), and insulin glargine is widely used during pregnancy.

Automated insulin delivery (AID) systems have been studied in pregnancy and postpartum. The use of AID systems in pregnancy affected by diabetes presents particular challenges, as the current U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved AID systems (except for one that has been FDA approved but is not yet commercially available in the U.S.) do not have algorithms designed to achieve pregnancy-specific glucose goals.

2026 February 01 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S321/848846/dc26s015.pdf from Downloaded



diabetesjournals.org/care
# Management of Diabetes in Pregnancy

and the lowest glucose target available &#x3C;63 mg/dL (&#x3C;3.5 mmol/L) decreased episodes. One prespecified observational analysis of individuals who continued AID intrapartum and/or early postpartum found improved TIR intrapartum and similar TIR early postpartum in the AID group compared with the standard insulin therapy group, without severe hypoglycemia (126). In a prespecified extension to the AiDAPT trial, in which participants continued either AID or standard insulin therapy for 6 months postpartum, TIR was higher and mean glucose lower in the AID group, without significant differences in hypoglycemia (127). Suggested strategies for postpartum adjustment of AID pump settings have been described (128).

Treatment of GDM with lifestyle and insulin has been demonstrated to improve perinatal outcomes in two large RCTs, as summarized in a U.S. Preventive Services Task Force review (129). Insulin is the first-line agent recommended for the treatment of GDM in the U.S. While individual studies support limited efficacy of metformin (130,131) and glyburide (132) in reducing glucose levels for the treatment of GDM, these agents are not recommended as the first-line treatment of GDM because they are known to cross the placenta and data on long-term safety for offspring is of some concern (20). Furthermore, in separate RCTs, glyburide and metformin failed to achieve adequate glycemic outcomes in 23% and 25–28% of participants with GDM, respectively (133,134).

# Sulfonylureas

Sulfonylureas are known to cross the placenta and have been associated with increased neonatal hypoglycemia. Concentrations of glyburide in umbilical cord plasma are approximately 50–70% of maternal levels (133,134). In systematic reviews and meta-analyses, compared with insulin or metformin, glyburide was associated with a higher rate of neonatal hypoglycemia and macrosomia and an increased neonatal abdominal circumference (135,136).

Glyburide was not found to be noninferior to insulin based on a composite outcome of neonatal hypoglycemia, macrosomia, and hyperbilirubinemia among individuals with GDM (137). In a randomized noninferiority trial evaluating insulin compared with an oral glucose-lowering medication strategy (metformin with addition of glyburide and then insulin substitution for glyburide if glycemic goals were not met) in GDM, the oral glucose-lowering medication strategy failed to meet criteria for noninferiority compared with insulin in...

2026 February 01 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S321/848846/dc26s015.pdf Downloaded



Management of Diabetes in Pregnancy
# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

Preventing large-for-gestational-age infants demonstrated higher BMI and increased obesity in the offspring exposed to metformin. A follow-up study at 5–10 years showed that the offspring had higher BMI, weight-to-height ratios, and waist circumferences and a borderline increase in fat mass. A meta-analysis demonstrated that metformin exposure resulted in smaller neonates with an acceleration of postnatal growth, resulting in higher BMI in childhood. Follow-up of offspring from the Metformin in Women with Type 2 Diabetes in Pregnancy (MiTy Kids) trial showed no differences in anthropometrics of children at 24 months. When prepregnancy metformin use is continued in early pregnancy, it can be discontinued at the end of the first trimester (after organogenesis) to avoid sudden deterioration of glycemia and an associated increased risk of malformations due to hyperglycemia. Continuation of metformin in early pregnancy is considered safe, as first-trimester metformin use has not been associated with increased risk of major congenital malformations, and there is minimal maternal-to-fetal transfer of metformin in early gestation.

There are some people with GDM requiring medical therapy who may not be able to use insulin safely or effectively during pregnancy due to cost, comprehension, or cultural influences. Oral agents may be an alternative for these individuals after discussing the known risks and the need for more long-term safety data in offspring. However, due to the potential for growth restriction or acidosis in the setting of placental insufficiency, metformin should not be used in pregnant people with hypertension or preeclampsia or those at risk for intrauterine growth restriction.

# Special Considerations for Management of Pregnancies With Diabetes

# Recommendation

15.23 Pregnant individuals with type 1 or type 2 diabetes should be prescribed low-dose aspirin 100–150 mg/day starting at 12–16 weeks of gestation to lower the risk of preeclampsia. A dosage of 162 mg/day may be acceptable; currently, in the U.S., low-dose aspirin is available in 81-mg tablets.

Diabetes in pregnancy is associated with an increased risk of preeclampsia. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommends that blood pressure measurements be obtained throughout gestation to screen for hypertensive disorders of pregnancy.

2026 February 01 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S321/848846/dc26s015.pdf from Downloaded



diabetesjournals.org/care
# Management of Diabetes in Pregnancy

(166). The Task Force also recommends using low-dose aspirin (81 mg/day) as a preventive medication at 12 weeks of gestation in individuals at high risk for preeclampsia, such as those with type 1 or type 2 diabetes (167). However, a meta-analysis and an additional trial demonstrate that low-dose aspirin &#x3C;100 mg is not effective in reducing preeclampsia, so a dose of >100 mg is required (168–170). A cost-benefit analysis has concluded that this approach would reduce morbidity, save lives, and lower health care costs (171). There are insufficient data about whether the use of aspirin specifically in pregnant people with preexisting diabetes ultimately reduces the incidence of preeclampsia (172,173), although a meta-analysis showed that preeclampsia reductions occurred with aspirin administration in high-risk groups overall (165). Individuals with GDM may be candidates for aspirin therapy for preeclampsia prevention if they have a single high-risk factor, such as chronic hypertension or an autoimmune disease, or multiple moderate risk factors, such as being nulliparous, having obesity, being age ≥35 years, or other factors per the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (167). More studies are needed to assess the long-term effects of prenatal aspirin exposure on offspring (172).

# PREGNANCY AND NON–GLUCOSE-LOWERING DRUG CONSIDERATIONS

# Recommendations

15.24 In pregnant individuals with diabetes and chronic hypertension, a blood pressure threshold &#x3C;140/90 mmHg is recommended for initiation and titration of therapy for better pregnancy outcomes. A Therapy should be deintensified if blood pressure is &#x3C;90/60 mmHg. E

15.25a Potentially harmful medications in pregnancy (e.g., ACE inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists) should be stopped prior to conception and avoided in sexually active individuals of childbearing potential who are not using reliable contraception. B

15.25b In most circumstances, lipid-lowering medications should be stopped prior to conception and avoided in sexually active individuals of childbearing potential with diabetes who are not using reliable contraception. B In some circumstances (familial

tes and chronic hypertension to determine the effect of a lower blood pressure goal (&#x3C;130/80 mmHg) on pregnancy and neonatal outcomes (175). Participants with lower blood pressure were more likely to be on antihypertensive medications at the start of pregnancy and more likely to have newly diagnosed diabetes prior to 20 weeks. Average blood pressure attained was systolic 122.0 ± 5.7 mmHg vs. 134.9 ± 7.4 mmHg and diastolic 74.4 ± 4.0 mmHg vs. 81.7 ± 5.7 mmHg in the &#x3C;130/80 mmHg vs. 130–139/80–89 mmHg groups, respectively. Participants with an average blood pressure &#x3C;130/80 mmHg were less likely to have the primary composite adverse perinatal outcome (19.3% vs. 46.5%, adjusted relative risk 0.43, 95% CI 0.30–0.61) and its components: preeclampsia with severe features (14.0 vs. 40.5%, adjusted risk ratio 0.35, 95% CI 0.23–0.54) and indicated preterm birth &#x3C;35 weeks (8.0% vs. 20.1%, adjusted risk ratio 0.44, 95% CI 0.24–0.79), P &#x3C; 0.01 for both. They were less likely to have adverse perinatal outcomes: birth weight &#x3C;10th percentile (3.3% vs. 8.8%, adjusted risk ratio 0.37, 95% CI 0.14–0.96,

2026 February 01 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S321/848846/dc26s015.pdf from Downloaded




# Management of Diabetes in Pregnancy

# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

discussion of risks and benefits in pregnant individuals at high risk, such as those with a history of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease or familial hypercholesterolemia (homozygous or severe heterozygous) (34). Hydrophilic statins, such as pravastatin, may be associated with less fetal harm than lipophilic statins (180). Pravastatin has been studied in multiple pregnancy trials administering therapy at various time points in gestation with the aim to reduce preeclampsia risk, and although its ability to do so is inconclusive to date, there does not appear to be increased neonatal mortality or morbidity associated with its use during gestation (34). In pregnant individuals with a history of severe hypertriglyceridemia, triglyceride levels should be monitored, and nutrition interventions with or without pharmacologic therapy for severe hypertriglyceridemia should be instituted when indicated to reduce pancreatitis risk (34).

# Diabetes Treatment Postpartum

For individuals requiring insulin after delivery, insulin sensitivity increases dramatically with the delivery of the placenta. In one study, insulin requirements in the immediate postpartum period were roughly 34% lower than prepregnancy insulin requirements (181). Insulin sensitivity then returns to prepregnancy levels over the following 1–2 weeks. For individuals taking insulin, particular attention should be directed to hypoglycemia prevention in the setting of breastfeeding and erratic sleep and eating schedules (182). Individuals with GDM usually do not require diabetes medications in the postpartum period. Contraception A major barrier to effective preconception care is the fact that many pregnancies are unplanned (183). Planning pregnancy is critical in individuals with preexisting diabetes to achieve the optimal glycemic goals necessary to prevent congenital malformations and reduce the risk of other complications. Therefore, all individuals with diabetes of childbearing potential should have family planning options reviewed at regular intervals to make sure that effective contraception is implemented and maintained. This applies to individuals in the immediate postpartum period. Individuals with diabetes have the same contraception options and recommendations as those without diabetes, although the existence of diabetes complications or other vascular disease may modify recommended options (12). Long-acting, reversible contraception may be ideal for individuals with diabetes and childbearing potential. The risk of an unplanned pregnancy outweighs the risk of any currently available contraception option.

# POSTPARTUM CARE

# Recommendations

- 15.26 Insulin requirements need to be evaluated and adjusted for individuals requiring insulin after delivery because insulin resistance decreases dramatically immediately postpartum. C
- 15.27 A contraceptive plan should be discussed and implemented with all people with diabetes of childbearing potential. A
- 15.28 Breastfeeding efforts are recommended for all individuals with diabetes. A Breastfeeding is recommended for individuals with a history of GDM for multiple benefits, A including a reduced risk for type 2 diabetes later in life. B
- 15.29 Postpartum care should include psychosocial assessment and support for self-care. E
- 15.30 Screen individuals with a recent history of GDM at 4–12 weeks postpartum, using the 75-g oral glucose tolerance test and clinically appropriate nonpregnancy diagnostic criteria. B
- 15.31 Individuals with a history of GDM should have lifelong screening for the development of type 2 diabetes or prediabetes every 1–3 years. B
- 15.32 Individuals with overweight or obesity and a history of GDM found to have prediabetes should receive

Special Postpartum Considerations for Individuals With Gestational Diabetes Mellitus Because GDM often represents previously undiagnosed prediabetes, type 2 diabetes, maturity-onset diabetes of the young, or even developing type 1 diabetes, individuals with GDM should be tested for persistent diabetes or prediabetes at 4–12 weeks postpartum with a fasting 75-g OGTT using nonpregnancy criteria as outlined in section 2, “Diagnosis and Classification of Diabetes,” specifically Tables 2.1 and 2.2. The OGTT is recommended over A1C at 4–12 weeks postpartum, because A1C may be persistently impacted (lowered) by the increased red blood cell turnover related to pregnancy, by blood loss at delivery, or by the preceding 3-month glucose profile. The OGTT is more sensitive at detecting glucose intolerance, including both prediabetes and diabetes, and has been examined as a screening tool for these conditions in the first 12 weeks after delivery in individuals who had a recent pregnancy with GDM (188,189). OGTT testing immediately postpartum, while still hospitalized, has demonstrated improved engagement in testing but also variably reduced sensitivity to the diagnosis of impaired fasting glucose, impaired glucose tolerance, and type 2 diabetes (190,191). In a small subset of individuals who are unable to tolerate or who decline the postpartum glucose.

2026 February 01 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S321/848846/dc26s015.pdf from Downloaded





diabetesjournals.org/care
# Management of Diabetes in Pregnancy

tolerance test, an A1C performed at 6–12 months postpartum may be considered. A retrospective study aimed to evaluate the performance of A1C as a postpartum screening test (192). The study included 677 out of 9,118 individuals with a recent GDM diagnosis who had both A1C and 2-h 75-g OGTT testing performed for clinical purposes between delivery and 12 months postpartum. A1C level of 5.7% had 80% sensitivity and 80.8% specificity for the detection of a 2-h plasma glucose value ≥200 mg/dL (≥11.1 mmol/L). A weakness of this study is the likelihood of selection bias, as it is not standard of care to perform both tests unless there is higher concern for a diagnosis of diabetes. Individuals with a history of GDM should have ongoing screening for prediabetes or type 2 diabetes every 1–3 years, even if results of the initial 75-g OGTT at 4–12 weeks postpartum are normal. Ongoing evaluation may be performed with any recommended glycemic test (see section 2, “Diagnosis and Classification of Diabetes”). Individuals with a history of GDM have an increased lifetime maternal risk for diabetes estimated at 50–60% (193,194), and those with GDM have a 10-fold increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes compared with those without GDM (193). Absolute risk of developing type 2 diabetes after GDM increases linearly through a person’s lifetime, being ∼20% at 10 years, 30% at 20 years, 40% at 30 years, 50% at 40 years, and 60% at 50 years (194). Hazard ratios for incident diabetes were significantly elevated for a history of GDM in a single pregnancy but were even higher for a history of two GDM pregnancies in a large retrospective cohort study (hazard ratios ranged from 4.35- to 15.8-fold based on number of pregnancies with GDM and which pregnancy the individual had GDM (first or second) (195). In the prospective Nurses’ Health Study II (NHS II), subsequent diabetes risk after a history of GDM was significantly lower in those who followed healthy eating patterns (196). Adjusting for BMI moderately attenuated this association. Interpregnancy weight gain is associated with increased risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes (197) and higher risk of GDM, while in people with BMI >25 kg/m², weight loss is associated with lower risk of developing GDM in the subsequent pregnancy (198). Development of type 2 diabetes is 18% higher.

# References

1. Dabelea D, Hanson RL, Lindsay RS, et al. Intrauterine exposure to diabetes conveys risks for type 2 diabetes and obesity: a study of discordant sibships. Diabetes 2000;49:2208–2211
2. Holmes VA, Young IS, Patterson CC, et al.; Diabetes and Pre-eclampsia Intervention Trial Study Group. Optimal glycemic control, preeclampsia, and gestational hypertension in women with type 1 diabetes in the diabetes and pre-eclampsia intervention trial. Diabetes Care 2011;34:1683–1688
3. Wahabi HA, Fayed A, Esmaeil S, et al. Systematic review and meta-analysis of the effectiveness of pre-pregnancy care for women with diabetes for improving maternal and perinatal outcomes. PLoS One 2020;15:e0237571
4. Charron-Prochownik D, Sereika SM, Becker D, et al. Long-term effects of the booster-enhanced READY-Girls preconception counseling program on intentions and behaviors for family planning in teens with diabetes. Diabetes Care 2013;36:3870–3874
5. ACOG Committee Opinion No. 762. Pre-pregnancy Counseling. Obstet Gynecol 2019;133:e78–e89
6. Peterson C, Grosse SD, Li R, et al. Preventable health and cost burden of adverse birth outcomes associated with pregestational diabetes in the United States. Am J Obstet Gynecol 2015;212:74.e71–74.e9
7. Britton LE, Hussey JM, Berry DC, Crandell JL, Brooks JL, Bryant AG. Contraceptive use among women with prediabetes and diabetes in a US national sample. J Midwifery Womens Health 2019;64:36–45
8. Morris JR, Tepper NK. Description comparison of postpartum use of effective contraception among women with and without diabetes. Contraception 2019;100:474–479
9. Goldstuck ND, Steyn PS. The intrauterine device in women with diabetes mellitus type I. Randomized controlled trial of prepregnancy lifestyle intervention to reduce recurrence of

2026 February 01 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S321/848846/dc26s015.pdf from Downloaded




# Management of Diabetes in Pregnancy

# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

gestational diabetes mellitus. Am J Obstet Gynecol 2023;229:158.e151-158–158.e14 monitoring in women with gestational diabetes early and late gestational diabetes mellitus after treatment from 24-28 weeks’ gestation: a TOBOGM secondary analysis. Diabetes Care 2024;47:2093–2101

Clausen TD, Mathiesen E, Ekbom P, Hellmuth E, Mandrup-Poulsen T, Damm P. Poor pregnancy outcome in women with type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2005;28:323–328

Cundy T, Gamble G, Neale L, et al. Differing causes of pregnancy loss in type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2007;30:2603–2607

Barry MJ, Nicholson WK, Silverstein M, et al.; US Preventive Services Task Force. Folic acid supplementation to prevent neural tube defects: US Preventive Services Task Force reaffirmation recommendation statement. JAMA 2023;330:454–459

Alexander EK, Pearce EN, Brent GA, et al. 2017 Guidelines of the American Thyroid Association for the diagnosis and management of thyroid disease during pregnancy and the postpartum. Thyroid 2017;27:315–389

Ramos DE. Preconception health: changing the paradigm on well-woman health. Obstet Gynecol Clin North Am 2019;46:399–408

American Diabetes Association. Preconception care of women with diabetes. Diabetes Care 2004;27(Suppl 1):S76–S78

Relph S, Patel T, Delaney L, Sobhy S, Thangaratinam S. Adverse pregnancy outcomes in women with diabetes-related microvascular disease and risks of disease progression in pregnancy: a systematic review and meta-analysis. PLoS Med 2021;18:e1003856

Bullo M, Tschumi S, Bucher BS, Bianchetti MG, Simonetti GD. Pregnancy outcome following exposure to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin receptor antagonists: a systematic review. Hypertension 2012;60:444–450

Agarwala A, Dixon DL, Gianos E, et al. Dyslipidemia management in women of reproductive potential: an expert clinical consensus from the National Lipid Association. J Clin Lipidol 2024;18:e664–e684

Novo Nordisk. Semaglutide prescribing information. 2023. Accessed 15 August 2025. Available from https://www.novo-pi.com/ozempic.pdf

Eli Lilly Canada Inc. Tirzepatide product monograph. 2022. Accessed 15 August 2025. Available from https://pdf.hres.ca/dpd_pm/00068421.PDF

Widyaputri F, Rogers S, Lim L. Global estimates of diabetic retinopathy prevalence and progression in pregnant individuals with preexisting diabetes: a meta-analysis. JAMA Ophthalmol 2022;140:1137–1138

García-Patterson A, Gich I, Amini SB, Catalano PM, de Leiva A, Corcoy R. Insulin requirements throughout pregnancy in women with type 1 diabetes mellitus: three changes of direction. Diabetologia 2010;53:446–451

Mathiesen JM, Secher AL, Ringholm L, et al. Changes in basal rates and bolus calculator settings in insulin pumps during pregnancy in women with type 1 diabetes. J Matern Fetal Neonatal Med 2014;27:724–728

Diabetes Technology Network UK. Best Practice Guide: Using Diabetes Technology in Pregnancy, 2020. Accessed 15 August 2025. Available from https://abcd.care/sites/abcd.care/files/site_uploads/Resources/DTN/BP-Pregnancy-DTN-V2.0.pdf

de Veciana M, Major CA, Morgan MA, et al. Postprandial versus preprandial blood glucose levels are significantly lower in early and late pregnancy. Diabetes Care 2004;27:1200–1201

Sweeting A, Hare MJ, de Jersey SJ, et al. Australasian Diabetes in Pregnancy Society (ADIPS) 2025 consensus recommendations for the screening, diagnosis and classification of gestational diabetes. Med J Aust 2025;223:161–167

Zhu W-W, Yang H-X, Wei Y-M, et al. Evaluation of the value of fasting plasma glucose in the first prenatal visit to diagnose gestational diabetes mellitus in China. Diabetes Care 2013;36:586–590

Kattini R, Hummelen R, Kelly L. Early gestational diabetes mellitus screening with glycated hemoglobin: a systematic review. J Obstet Gynaecol Can 2020;42:1379–1384

Mané L, Flores-Le Roux JA, Benaiges D, et al. Role of first-trimester HbA1c as a predictor of adverse obstetric outcomes in a multiethnic cohort. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2017;102:390–397

Hughes RCE, Moore MP, Gullam JE, Mohamed K, Rowan J. An early pregnancy HbA1c ≥5.9% (41 mmol/mol) is optimal for detecting diabetes and identifies women at increased risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes. Diabetes Care 2014;37:2953–2959

Shen L, Zhang S, Wen J, et al. Universal screening for hyperglycemia in early pregnancy and the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes. BMC Pregnancy Childbirth 2025;25:203

Simmons D, Immanuel J, Hague WM, et al.; TOBOGM Research Group. Treatment of gestational diabetes mellitus diagnosed early in pregnancy. N Engl J Med 2023;388:2132–2144

Simmons D, Immanuel J, Hague WM, et al.; TOBOGM Research Group. Regression from early GDM to normal glucose tolerance and adverse pregnancy outcomes in the Treatment of Booking Gestational Diabetes Mellitus study. Diabetes Care 2024;47:2079–2084

Feig DS, Donovan LE, Corcoy R, et al.; CONCEPTT Collaborative Group. Continuous Glucose Monitoring in Pregnant Women with Type 1 Diabetes (CONCEPTT): a multicentre international randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2017;390:2347–2359

Kristensen K, Ögge LE, Sengpiel V, et al. Continuous glucose monitoring in pregnant women with type 1 diabetes: an observational cohort study of 186 pregnancies. Diabetologia 2019;62:1143–1153

Law GR, Gilthorpe MS, Secher AL, et al. Translating HbA1c measurements into estimated

2026 February 01 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S321/848846/dc26s015.pdf from Downloaded





diabetesjournals.org/care
# Management of Diabetes in Pregnancy

average glucose values in pregnant women with diabetes. Diabetologia 2017;60:618–624

72. Sanusi AA, Xue Y, McIlwraith C, et al. Association of continuous glucose monitoring metrics with pregnancy outcomes in patients with preexisting diabetes. Diabetes Care 2024;47:89–96

73. Sobhani NC, Goemans S, Nguyen A, et al. Continuous glucose monitoring in pregnancies with type 1 diabetes: small increases in time-in-range improve maternal and perinatal outcomes. Am J Obstet Gynecol 2024;231:467.e1–467.e8

74. Ahmed RJ, Gafni A, Hutton EK, et al.; CONCEPTT Collaborative Group. The cost implications of continuous glucose monitoring in pregnant women with type 1 diabetes in 3 Canadian provinces: a posthoc cost analysis of the CONCEPTT trial. CMAJ Open 2021;9:E627–E634

75. Szmuilowicz ED, Barbour L, Brown FM, et al. Continuous glucose monitoring metrics for pregnancies complicated by diabetes: critical appraisal of current evidence. J Diabetes Sci Technol 2024;18:819–834

76. Wei Q, Sun Z, Yang Y, Yu H, Ding H, Wang S. Effect of a CGMS and SMBG on maternal and neonatal outcomes in gestational diabetes mellitus: a randomized controlled trial. Sci Rep 2016;6:19920

77. Burk J, Ross GP, Hernandez TL, Colagiuri S, Sweeting A. Evidence for improved glucose metrics and perinatal outcomes with continuous glucose monitoring compared to self-monitoring in diabetes during pregnancy. Am J Obstet Gynecol 2025;233:162–175

78. Lai M, Weng J, Yang J, et al. Effect of continuous glucose monitoring compared with self-monitoring of blood glucose in gestational diabetes patients with HbA1c&#x3C;6%: a randomized controlled trial. Front Endocrinol 2023;14:1174239

79. Amylidi-Mohr S, Zennaro G, Schneider S, Raio L, Mosimann B, Surbek D. Continuous glucose monitoring in the management of gestational diabetes in Switzerland (DipGluMo): an open-label, single-centre, randomised, controlled trial. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2025;13:591–599

80. Valent AM, Rickert M, Pagan CH, Ward L, Dunn E, Rincon M. Real-time continuous glucose monitoring in pregnancies with gestational diabetes mellitus: a randomized controlled trial. Diabetes Care 2025;48:1581–1588

81. Polsky S, Valent AM, Isganaitis E, et al. Performance of the Dexcom G7 continuous glucose monitoring system in pregnant women with diabetes. Diabetes Technol Ther 2024;26:307–312

82. Neoh SL, Grisoni JA, Feig DS, Murphy HR; CONCEPTT Collaborative Group. Dietary intakes of women with type 1 diabetes before and during pregnancy: a pre-specified secondary subgroup analysis among CONCEPTT participants. Diabet Med 2020;37:1841–1848

83. Marshall NE, Abrams B, Barbour LA, et al. The importance of nutrition in pregnancy and lactation: lifelong consequences. Am J Obstet Gynecol 2022;226:607–632

84. U.S. Department of Agriculture and U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Dietary Guidelines for Americans, 2020–2025. Accessed 15 August 2025. Available from Dietary Guidelines for Americans

85. Medeiros DM. In Dietary Reference Intakes: The Essential Guide to Nutrient Requirements. Otten JJ, Hellwig JP, Meyers LD, Eds. Washington, DC, National Academies Press, 2006

86. Hernandez TL, Mande A, Barbour LA. Nutrition therapy within and beyond gestational diabetes. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2018;145:39–50

87. Hernandez TL, Van Pelt RE, Anderson MA, et al. A higher-complex carbohydrate diet in gestational diabetes mellitus achieves glucose targets and lowers postprandial lipids: a randomized crossover study. Diabetes Care 2014;37:1254–1262

88. Han S, Middleton P, Shepherd E, Van Ryswyk E, Crowther CA. Different types of dietary advice for women with gestational diabetes mellitus. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2017;2:CD009275

89. Viana LV, Gross JL, Azevedo MJ. Dietary intervention in patients with gestational diabetes mellitus: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials on maternal and newborn outcomes. Diabetes Care 2014;37:3345–3355

90. Weight Gain During Pregnancy: Reexamining the Guidelines. Rasmussen KM, Yaktine AL, Eds. Washington, DC, 2009. Available from Weight Gain During Pregnancy

91. Koivusalo SB, Rono K, Klemetti MM, et al. Erratum. Gestational diabetes mellitus can be prevented by lifestyle intervention: the Finnish Gestational Diabetes Prevention Study (RADIEL). A randomized controlled trial. Diabetes Care 2016;39:24–30. Diabetes Care 2017;40:1133

92. Wang C, Wei Y, Zhang X, et al. A randomized clinical trial of exercise during pregnancy to prevent gestational diabetes mellitus and improve pregnancy outcome in overweight and obese pregnant women. Am J Obstet Gynecol 2017;216:340–351

93. Griffith RJ, Alsweiler J, Moore AE, et al. Interventions to prevent women from developing gestational diabetes mellitus: an overview of Cochrane Reviews. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2020;6:Cd012394

94. Mayo K, Melamed N, Vandenberghe H, Berger H. The impact of adoption of the international association of diabetes in pregnancy study group criteria for the screening and diagnosis of gestational diabetes. Am J Obstet Gynecol 2015;212:224.e1–e221

95. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans, 2nd edition. 2018. Accessed 15 August 2025. Available from Physical Activity Guidelines

96. Davenport MH, Ruchat S-M, Poitras VJ, et al. Prenatal exercise for the prevention of gestational diabetes mellitus and hypertensive disorders of pregnancy: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Br J Sports Med 2018;52:1367–1375

97. Davenport MH, Sobierajski F, Mottola MF, et al. Glucose responses to acute and chronic exercise during pregnancy: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Br J Sports Med 2018;52:1357–1366

98. Laredo-Aguilera JA, Gallardo-Bravo M, Rabanales-Sotos JA, Cobo-Cuenca AI, Carmona-Torres JM. Physical activity programs during pregnancy are effective for the control of gestational diabetes mellitus. Int J Environ Res Public Health 2020;17:6151

99. Xie W, Dai P, Qin Y, Wu M, Yang B, Yu X. Effectiveness of telemedicine for pregnant women with gestational diabetes mellitus: an updated meta-analysis of 32 randomized controlled trials. Diabetes Care 2021;44:1234–1245

100. Padmanabhan S, Lee VW, Mclean M, et al. The association of falling insulin requirements with maternal biomarkers and placental dysfunction: a prospective study of women with preexisting diabetes in pregnancy. Diabetes Care 2017;40:1323–1330

101. Ram M, Feinmesser L, Shinar S, Maslovitz S. The importance of declining insulin requirements during pregnancy in patients with pre-gestational gestational diabetes mellitus. Eur J Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol 2017;215:148–152

102. Pollex EK, Feig DS, Lubetsky A, Yip PM, Koren G. Insulin glargine safety in pregnancy: a transplacental transfer study. Diabetes Care 2010;33:29–33

103. Holcberg G, Tsadkin-Tamir M, Sapir O, et al. Transfer of insulin lispro across the human placenta. Eur J Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol 2004;115:117–118

104. Boskovic R, Feig DS, Derewlany L, Knie B, Portnoi G, Koren G. Transfer of insulin lispro across the human placenta: in vitro perfusion studies. Diabetes Care 2003;26:1390–1394

105. McCance DR, Damm P, Mathiesen ER, et al. Evaluation of insulin antibodies and placental transfer of insulin aspart in pregnant women with type 1 diabetes mellitus. Diabetologia 2008;51:2141–2143

106. Farrar D, Tuffnell DJ, West J, West HM. Continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion versus multiple daily injections of insulin for pregnant women with diabetes. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2016;2016:CD005542

107. Suffecool K, Rosenn B, Niederkofler EE, et al. Insulin detemir does not cross the human placenta. Diabetes Care 2015;38:e20–e21

108. Mathiesen ER, Alibegovic AC, Corcoy R, et al.; EXPECT Study Group. Insulin degludec versus insulin detemir, both in combination with insulin aspart, in the treatment of pregnant women with type 1 diabetes (EXPECT): an open-label, multinational, randomised, controlled, non-inferiority trial. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2023;11:86–95

109. O’Neill SM, Kenny LC, Khashan AS, West HM, Smyth RM, Kearney PM. Different insulin types and regimens for pregnant women with pre-existing diabetes. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2017;2:Cd011880

110. Fishel Bartal M, Ward C, Blackwell SC, et al. Detemir vs neutral protamine Hagedorn insulin for diabetes mellitus in pregnancy: a comparative effectiveness, randomized controlled trial. Am J Obstet Gynecol 2021;225:87 e81–87 e10

111. Pollex E, Moretti ME, Koren G, Feig DS. Safety of insulin glargine use in pregnancy: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Ann Pharmacother 2011;45:9–16

112. Novo Nordisk. Insulin degludec prescribing information, 2025. Accessed 15 August 2025. Available from Insulin degludec prescribing information

113. Hirsch IB. Insulin analogues. N Engl J Med 2005;352:174–183

114. Hod M, Damm P, Kaaja R, et al.; Insulin Aspart Pregnancy Study Group. Fetal and perinatal outcomes in type 1 diabetes pregnancy: a randomized study comparing insulin aspart.

2026 February 01 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S321/848846/dc26s015.pdf from Downloaded




# Management of Diabetes in Pregnancy

# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

with human insulin in 322 subjects. Am J Obstet Gynecol 2008;198:186.e181–186.e187

115. Mathiesen ER, Kinsley B, Amiel SA, et al.; Insulin Aspart Pregnancy Study Group. Maternal glycemic control and hypoglycemia in type 1 diabetic pregnancy: a randomized trial of insulin aspart versus human insulin in 322 pregnant women. Diabetes Care 2007;30:771–776

116. Nørgaard SK, Søholm JC, Mathiesen ER, et al. Faster-acting insulin aspart versus insulin aspart in the treatment of type 1 or type 2 diabetes during pregnancy and post-delivery (CopenFast): an open-label, single-centre, randomised controlled trial. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2023;11:811–821

117. Søholm JC, Nørgaard SK, Nørgaard K, et al. Sensor-derived glycaemic metrics in pregnant women with type 1 diabetes randomised to faster acting insulin aspart or insulin aspart—a secondary analysis of the CopenFast trial. Diabet Med 2025;42:e15467

118. Kernaghan D, Farrell T, Hammond P, Owen P. Fetal growth in women managed with insulin pump therapy compared to conventional insulin. Eur J Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol 2008;137:47–49

119. Lee TTM, Collett C, Bergford S, et al.; AiDAPT Collaborative Group. Automated insulin delivery in women with pregnancy complicated by type 1 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2023;389:1566–1578

120. Lawton J, Kimbell B, Closs M, et al. Listening to women: experiences of using closed-loop in type 1 diabetes pregnancy. Diabetes Technol Ther 2023;25:845–855

121. Benhalima K, Beunen K, Van Wilder N, et al. Comparing advanced hybrid closed loop therapy and standard insulin therapy in pregnant women with type 1 diabetes (CRISTAL): a parallel-group, open-label, randomised controlled trial. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2024;12:390–403

122. Polsky S, Buschur E, Dungan K, et al. Randomized trial of assisted hybrid closed-loop therapy versus sensor-augmented pump therapy in pregnancy. Diabetes Technol Ther 2024;26:547–555

123. Szmuilowicz ED, Levy CJ, Buschur EO, Polsky S. Expert guidance on off-label use of hybrid closed-loop therapy in pregnancies complicated by diabetes. Diabetes Technol Ther 2023;25:363–373

124. Wilkie GL, Delpapa E, Leftwich HK. Intrapartum continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion vs intravenous insulin infusion among pregnant individuals with type 1 diabetes mellitus: a randomized controlled trial. Am J Obstet Gynecol 2023;229:680.e681–680.e688

125. Donovan LE, Feig DS, Lemieux P, et al. A randomized trial of closed-loop insulin delivery postpartum in type 1 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2023;46:2258–2266

126. Beunen K, Gillard P, Van Wilder N, et al. Advanced hybrid closed-loop therapy compared with standard insulin therapy intrapartum and early postpartum in women with type 1 diabetes: a secondary observational analysis from the CRISTAL randomized controlled trial. Diabetes Care 2024;47:2002–2011

127. Lee TTM, Collett C, Bergford S, et al.; AiDAPT Collaborative Group. Automated insulin delivery during the first 6 months postpartum (AiDAPT): a prespecified extension study. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2025;13:210–220

128. Szmuilowicz ED, Durnwald C, Feig DS. Practical approach to continuous glucose monitoring. JAMA 2023;330:1547–1556

2026 February 01 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S321/848846/dc26s015.pdf from Downloaded



diabetesjournals.org/care
# Management of Diabetes in Pregnancy

S337

1. Feig DS, Sanchez JJ, Murphy KE, et al.; MiTy Kids Collaborative Group. Outcomes in children of women with type 2 diabetes exposed to metformin versus placebo during pregnancy (MiTy Kids): a 24-month follow-up of the MiTy randomised controlled trial. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2023;11:191–202
2. Wyckoff JA, Lapolla A, Asias-Dinh BD, et al. Preexisting diabetes and pregnancy: an Endocrine Society and European Society of Endocrinology joint clinical practice guideline. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2025;110:2405–2452
3. Chiu Y-H, Huybrechts KF, Patorno E, et al. Metformin use in the first trimester of pregnancy and risk for nonlive birth and congenital malformations: emulating a target trial using real-world data. Ann Intern Med 2024;177:862–870
4. Gilbert C, Valois M, Koren G. Pregnancy outcome after first-trimester exposure to metformin: a meta-analysis. Fertil Steril 2006;86:658–663
5. Barbour LA, Feig DS. Metformin for gestational diabetes mellitus: progeny, perspective, and a personalized approach. Diabetes Care 2019;42:396–399
6. Barbour LA, Scifres C, Valent AM, et al. A cautionary response to SMFM statement: pharmacological treatment of gestational diabetes. Am J Obstet Gynecol 2018;219:367.e1–367.e7
7. Chew EY, Mills JL, Metzger BE, et al. Metabolic control and progression of retinopathy. The Diabetes in Early Pregnancy Study. National Institute of Child Health and Human Development Diabetes in Early Pregnancy Study. Diabetes Care 1995;18:631–637
8. Sarvepalli SM, Bailey BA, D’Alessio D, et al. Risk factors for the development or progression of diabetic retinopathy in pregnancy: meta-analysis and systematic review. Clin Exp Ophthalmol 2023;51:195–204
9. Duckitt K, Harrington D. Risk factors for pre-eclampsia at antenatal booking: systematic review of controlled studies. BMJ 2005;330:565
10. Barry MJ, Nicholson WK, Silverstein M, et al.; US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for hypertensive disorders of pregnancy: U.S. Preventive Services Task Force final recommendation statement. JAMA 2023;330:1074–1082
11. Henderson JT, Whitlock EP, O’Conner E, Senger CA, Thompson JH, Rowland MG. Low-Dose Aspirin for the Prevention of Morbidity and Mortality From Preeclampsia: A Systematic Evidence Review for the US Preventive Services Task Force. Rockville, MD, Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, 2014
12. Roberge S, Bujold E, Nicolaides KH. Aspirin for the prevention of preterm and term preeclampsia: systematic review and metaanalysis. Am J Obstet Gynecol 2018;218:287–293
13. Rolnik DL, Wright D, Poon LC, et al. Aspirin versus placebo in pregnancies at high risk for preterm preeclampsia. N Engl J Med 2017;377:613–622
14. Hoffman MK, Goudar SS, Kodkany BS, et al.; ASPIRIN Study Group. Low-dose aspirin for the prevention of preterm delivery in nulliparous women with a singleton pregnancy (ASPIRIN): a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Lancet 2020;395:285–293
15. Werner EF, Hauspurg AK, Rouse DJ. A cost-benefit analysis of low-dose aspirin prophylaxis for the prevention of preeclampsia in the United States. Obstet Gynecol 2015;126:1242–1250
16. Pereira PF, Alfenas RdCG, Araújo RMA. Does breastfeeding influence the risk of developing type 2 diabetes? A systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Obes Rev 2021;22:e13122
17. Li N, Yang Y, Cui D, et al. Effects of lifestyle intervention on long-term risk of diabetes in women with prior gestational diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Obes Rev 2021;22:e13122

2026 February 01 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S321/848846/dc26s015.pdf from Downloaded



Management of Diabetes in Pregnancy
# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

1. Ratner RE, Christophi CA, Metzger BE, et al.; Diabetes Prevention Program Group. Prevention of diabetes in women with a history of gestational diabetes: effects of metformin and lifestyle interventions. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2008;93:4774–4779
2. Aroda VR, Christophi CA, Edelstein SL, et al.; Diabetes Prevention Program Research Group. The effect of lifestyle intervention and metformin on preventing or delaying diabetes among women with and without gestational diabetes: the Diabetes Prevention Program Outcomes Study 10-year follow-up. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2015;100:1646
3. ACOG Clinical Practice Guideline No. 6. Viral Hepatitis in Pregnancy. Obstet Gynecol 2023;142:745–759
4. ACOG Committee Opinion No. 741: Maternal Immunization. Obstet Gynecol 2018;131:e214–e217

Maternal Immunization Practice Advisory Research October 2022. Accessed 15 August 2025. Available from https://www.acog.org/clinical/clinical-guidance/practice-advisory/articles/2022/10/maternal-immunization

2026 February 01 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S321/848846/dc26s015.pdf from Downloaded