
# 10. Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management

S216 Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

American Diabetes Association Professional Practice Committee for Diabetes*

Diabetes Care 2026;49(Suppl. 1):S216–S245 | https://doi.org/10.2337/dc26-S010

The American Diabetes Association (ADA) “Standards of Care in Diabetes” includes the ADA’s current clinical practice recommendations and is intended to provide the components of diabetes care, general treatment goals and guidelines, and tools to evaluate quality of care. Members of the ADA Professional Practice Committee for Diabetes, an interprofessional expert committee, are responsible for updating the Standards of Care annually, or more frequently as warranted. For a detailed description of ADA standards, statements, and reports, as well as the evidence-grading system for ADA’s clinical practice recommendations and a full list of Professional Practice Committee members, please refer to Introduction and Methodology. Readers who wish to comment on the Standards of Care are invited to do so at professional.diabetes.org/SOC.

For prevention and management of diabetes complications in children and adolescents, please refer to section 14, “Children and Adolescents.”

Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is a broad term that includes atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) and heart failure, two CVDs common among people with diabetes. ASCVD broadly refers to a history of acute coronary syndrome, myocardial infarction (MI), stable or unstable angina or coronary or other arterial revascularization, stroke, or peripheral artery disease (PAD) including aortic aneurysm and is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in people with diabetes (1). Diabetes itself confers independent ASCVD risk, and among people with diabetes, all major cardiovascular risk factors, including hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and obesity, are clustered and common (2). Numerous studies have shown the efficacy of managing individual cardiovascular risk factors in preventing or slowing ASCVD in people with diabetes. Furthermore, large benefits are seen when multiple cardiovascular risk factors (glycemic, blood pressure, and lipid management) are addressed simultaneously, with evidence for long-lasting benefits (3–5). Notably, most of the evidence supporting interventions to reduce cardiovascular risk in diabetes comes from trials of people with type 2 diabetes. No randomized trials have been specifically designed to assess the impact of cardiovascular risk reduction strategies in people with type 1 diabetes.

Therefore, the recommendations for cardiovascular risk factor modification for people with type 1 diabetes are extrapolated from data obtained in people with type 2 diabetes and are similar to those for people with type 2 diabetes. Under the current paradigm of comprehensive risk factor modification, cardiovascular morbidity and mortality have notably decreased in people with both type 1 and type 2 diabetes (1). Indeed, when all major cardiovascular risk factors are treated to within the target ranges, people with type 2 diabetes have risk of death, MI, or stroke similar to that of the general population (6). Despite these encouraging opportunities to reduce morbidity and mortality, only a minority of people with diabetes...

*A complete list of members of the American Diabetes Association Professional Practice Committee for Diabetes can be found at https://doi.org/10.2337/dc26-SINT

This section has received endorsement from the American College of Cardiology.

Duality of interest information for each contributor is available at https://doi.org/10.2337/dc26-SDIS.

Suggested citation: American Diabetes Association Professional Practice Committee for Diabetes. 10. Cardiovascular disease and risk management: Standards of Care in Diabetes—2026. Diabetes Care 2026;49(Suppl. 1):S216–S245

© 2025 by the American Diabetes Association. Readers may use this work for educational, noncommercial purposes if properly cited and unaltered. The version of record may be linked at https://diabetesjournals.org/care, but ADA permission is required to post this work on any third-party site or platform. This publication and its contents may not be reproduced, distributed, or used for text or data mining, machine learning, or similar technologies without prior written permission. Requests to reuse, adapt, or distribute this work may be sent to permissions@diabetes.org. More information is available at https://diabetesjournals.org/journals/pages/license.

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf from Downloaded





diabetesjournals.org/care
# Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management

Type 2 diabetes achieve recommended risk factor goals and are treated with guideline-recommended therapy (7–9). Therefore, continued focus on delivering high-quality comprehensive cardiovascular care and on addressing barriers to risk factor management are required to implement the treatment recommendations (1,10) outlined in this section.

CVD also includes heart failure, and diabetes is a risk factor for incident heart failure, which is at least twofold more prevalent in people with diabetes compared with those without diabetes and is a major cause of morbidity and mortality (11). People with diabetes may present with a wide spectrum of heart failure, including heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF), heart failure with mildly reduced ejection fraction (HFmrEF), or heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) (12,13). Comorbid conditions including overweight and obesity and hypertension often precede the development of HFpEF and have been implicated in the pathophysiology of HFpEF (14). Coronary artery disease is a major risk factor and a cause of myocardial injury in ischemic heart disease leading to HFrEF. In addition, people with diabetes are at risk for developing structural heart disease and HFrEF in the absence of obstructive coronary artery disease (15). The pathophysiology of heart failure in people with diabetes and further details of screening, diagnosis, and treatment of people with heart failure and diabetes are also outlined in a previous consensus statement by the American Diabetes Association (ADA) (16).

There is an increasing appreciation of the common pathophysiology and interrelationship of cardiometabolic risk factors leading to both adverse cardiovascular and adverse kidney outcomes in people with diabetes, including ASCVD, heart failure, and chronic kidney disease (CKD) (17,18). These three comorbidities are frequently caused by metabolic risk, which is frequently driven by obesity and its associated risk factors, and the incidence of all three conditions rises with increasing A1C levels (19). Collectively, this combination of comorbidities has been termed cardiorenal metabolic disease or cardiovascular-kidney-metabolic health (20–22). Reasons to concurrently consider cardiovascular and kidney comorbidities in the management of people with diabetes include not only the common metabolic risk but also the major benefit observed across the spectrum of CVD, heart failure, and kidney outcomes in people with type 2 diabetes treated with sodium–glucose cotransporter (SGLT) inhibitors or glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonists (GLP-1 RAs).

Therefore, in addition to the management of hyperglycemia, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia, treatment with SGLT inhibitors and/or GLP-1 RAs that have demonstrated cardiovascular and kidney benefit is considered a fundamental element of risk reduction and a core pharmacological strategy to improve cardiovascular and kidney outcomes in people with type 2 diabetes (Fig. 10.1). In addition to the standards of care for the prevention and treatment of CVD outlined below, the reader is referred to section 9, “Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment,” and section 11, “Chronic Kidney Disease and Risk Management,” for a comprehensive review of pharmacological management of hyperglycemia and kidney benefit from SGLT2 inhibitors, SGLT1/2 inhibitors, and GLP-1 RAs.

# HYPERTENSION AND BLOOD PRESSURE MANAGEMENT

An elevated blood pressure is defined as a systolic blood pressure 120–129 mmHg with a diastolic blood pressure &#x3C;80 mmHg (23). Hypertension is defined as a systolic blood pressure ≥130 mmHg or a diastolic blood pressure ≥80 mmHg (23). This is in agreement with the definition of hypertension by the American College of Cardiology and American Heart Association (23). Hypertension is common among people with type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Hypertension is a major risk factor for ASCVD, heart failure, and microvascular complications. Moreover, numerous studies have shown that antihypertensive therapy reduces ASCVD events, heart failure, and microvascular complications. Please refer to the ADA position statement “Diabetes and Hypertension” for a detailed review of the epidemiology, diagnosis, and treatment of hypertension (24) and hypertension guideline recommendations (25–28). For blood pressure goals and management in individuals with diabetes who are pregnant, see section 15, “Management of Diabetes in Pregnancy” for details.

# Screening and Diagnosis Recommendations

10.1 Blood pressure should be measured at every routine clinical visit, or at least every 6 months by a trained individual who should follow the guidelines established for the general population: measurement in the seated position, with feet on the floor and arm supported at heart level, after 5 min of rest. Cuff size should be appropriate for the upper-arm circumference (29). Individuals identified to have elevated blood pressure or hypertension should have blood pressure confirmed using multiple readings, including measurements on a separate day, to diagnose hypertension. However, in individuals with CVD and blood pressure ≥180/110 mmHg, it is reasonable to diagnose hypertension at a single visit (25). Postural changes in blood pressure and pulse may be evidence of autonomic neuropathy and therefore require adjustment of blood pressure goals. Lying, sitting, and standing blood pressure measurements should be checked on initial visit and as indicated.

Home blood pressure self-monitoring and 24-h ambulatory blood pressure monitoring may provide evidence of white coat hypertension, masked hypertension, or other discrepancies between office and true blood pressure (30,31). In addition to confirming or refuting a diagnosis of hypertension, home blood pressure assessment may be useful to monitor antihypertensive treatment.

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf from Downloaded




S218  Cardiovascular Disease and  Risk  Management    Diabetes Care Volume  49,  Supplement  1,  January  2026

# Figure 10.1—Multifactorial approach to reduction in risk of diabetes complications.

Studies concluded that blood pressure measurements from either 24-h ambulatory or home blood pressure measurements can predict cardiovascular risk (30–32). Moreover, home blood pressure monitoring may improve medication-taking behavior and thus help reduce cardiovascular risk (33).

# Treatment Goals Recommendations

10.3 For people with diabetes and hypertension, blood pressure goals should be individualized through a shared decision-making process that addresses cardiovascular risk, potential adverse effects of antihypertensive medications, and individual preferences.

10.4 If it can be safely attained, the on-treatment blood pressure goal is &#x3C;130/80 mmHg; a systolic blood pressure goal &#x3C;120 mmHg should be encouraged in individuals with high cardiovascular or kidney risk.

Randomized clinical trials have demonstrated unequivocally that treatment of hypertension reduces cardiovascular events as well as microvascular complications (34–40). There has been controversy on the recommendation of a specific blood pressure goal in people with diabetes. The recommendation to support a blood pressure goal of &#x3C;130/80 mmHg in people with diabetes is consistent with guidelines from the American College of Cardiology and American Heart Association (24), the International Society of Hypertension, and the European Society of Cardiology/European Society of Hypertension Blood Pressure/Hypertension Guidelines (26).

BPROAD was an open-label trial that randomized individuals with diabetes and elevated CVD risk to an intensive systolic blood pressure goal of &#x3C;120 mmHg and noted a 21% reduction in nonfatal stroke, nonfatal MI, heart failure, or cardiovascular death compared with the group receiving standard systolic blood pressure goal of &#x3C;140 mmHg (42). ESPRIT also compared an intensive systolic blood pressure goal of &#x3C;120 mmHg to a standard goal of &#x3C;140 mmHg in individuals with diabetes (39%), prior stroke, or elevated cardiovascular risk. ESPRIT noted a significant 12% reduction in the primary outcome, a composite of MI, revascularization, hospitalization for heart failure, stroke, or cardiovascular death (43). The results of BPROAD and ESPRIT are supported by...

2026  January
29 on  guest
by     http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf
from   Downloaded




diabetesjournals.org/care
# Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management

S219

by the Systolic Blood Pressure Intervention Trial (SPRINT), which demonstrated that treatment to a goal systolic blood pressure of &#x3C;120 mmHg decreases cardiovascular event rates by 25% in high-risk individuals, although people with diabetes were excluded from this trial (44). While the relatively underpowered ACCORD (Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes) blood pressure trial (ACCORD BP) did not demonstrate that aiming for a systolic blood pressure &#x3C;120 mmHg in people with diabetes results in decreased cardiovascular event rates, the prespecified secondary outcome of stroke was reduced by 41% with intensive treatment (45). Notably, there is an absence of high-quality data available to guide blood pressure goals in people with type 1 diabetes, but a similar blood pressure goal of &#x3C;130/80 mmHg is recommended in people with type 1 diabetes. As discussed below, treatment should be individualized. For more information on individualized blood pressure goals in older individuals, please see section 13, “Older Adults.”

# Randomized Controlled Trials of Intensive Versus Standard Blood Pressure Management

BPROAD provides the strongest evidence to support a systolic blood pressure treatment goal of &#x3C;120 mmHg, as it enrolled people with type 2 diabetes and increased cardiovascular risk with a baseline systolic blood pressure ≥140 mmHg (or 130–180 mmHg if already taking antihypertensive medication). Increased cardiovascular risk was defined as a history of CVD at least 3 months before enrollment, subclinical CVD, two or more cardiovascular risk factors, and CKD (estimated glomerular filtration rate [eGFR] 30 to &#x3C;60 mL/min/1.72 m²). The 12,821 participants with type 2 diabetes were randomized to a goal systolic blood pressure &#x3C;120 mmHg or standard treatment (goal systolic blood pressure &#x3C;140 mmHg). The primary outcome of nonfatal stroke, nonfatal MI, treatment or hospitalization for heart failure, or death from cardiovascular causes was reduced by 21% in the intensive treatment group (hazard ratio [HR] 0.79, 95% CI 0.69–0.90), with an achieved mean systolic blood pressure in the intensive group of 121.6 mmHg vs. 133.2 mmHg in the standard therapy group. Adverse event rates were similar in the two groups, although symptomatic hypotension and hyperkalemia were more frequent in the intensive therapy group (42).

Adverse events attributed to blood pressure treatment, including hypotension, syncope, bradycardia, hyperkalemia, and elevations in serum creatinine, occurred more frequently in the intensive treatment arm than in the standard therapy arm. ACCORD BP has been viewed as underpowered due to the composite primary end point being less sensitive to blood pressure intervention (44,45).

In the Action in Diabetes and Vascular Disease: Preterax and Diamicron MR Controlled Evaluation (ADVANCE) trial, 11,140 people with type 2 diabetes were randomized to receive either treatment with a fixed combination of perindopril and indapamide or matching placebo (46). The primary end point, a composite of cardiovascular death, nonfatal stroke or MI, or new or worsening kidney or eye disease, was reduced by 9% in the combination treatment. The achieved systolic blood pressure was ∼135 mmHg in the treatment group and 140 mmHg in the placebo group.

The Hypertension Optimal Treatment (HOT) trial enrolled 18,790 individuals and aimed for a diastolic blood pressure &#x3C;90 mmHg, &#x3C;85 mmHg, or &#x3C;80 mmHg (47). The cardiovascular event rates, defined as fatal or nonfatal MI, fatal and nonfatal strokes, and all other cardiovascular events, were not significantly different between diastolic blood pressure goals (≤90 mmHg, ...

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf from Downloaded




# Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management

# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

≤85 mmHg, and ≤80 mmHg), although the lowest incidence of cardiovascular events occurred with an achieved diastolic blood pressure of 82 mmHg. However, in people with diabetes, there was a significant 51% reduction in MI, stroke, and cardiovascular death in the treatment group with a goal diastolic blood pressure of &#x3C;90 mmHg.

# Individualization of Treatment Goals

People with diabetes and clinicians should engage in a shared decision-making process to determine individual blood pressure goals (23). A thorough review of the benefits and risks of intensive blood pressure goals is consistent with a person-focused approach to care that values individual priorities and health care professional judgment (48). Secondary analyses of ACCORD BP and SPRINT suggest that clinical factors can help identify individuals more likely to benefit from and less likely to.

# Recommendations for the treatment of confirmed hypertension in nonpregnant people with diabetes

| Start one agent                        | Lifestyle management | Start two agents                                    |                                         |
| -------------------------------------- | -------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| Albuminuria or CAD\*                   | No                   | Yes                                                 |                                         |
| Start ACEi or ARB or CCB† or diuretic‡ | Start ACEi or ARB    | Start two drugs from ACEi or ARB, CCB† or diuretic‡ | Start ACEi or ARB and CCB† or diuretic‡ |

Assess BP goals§ and adverse effects

| Treatment tolerated and goal achieved | Not meeting goal                         | Adverse effects                            |
| ------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| Continue therapy                      | Add agent from complementary drug class: | Consider change to alternative medication: |
|                                       | • ACEi or ARB                            | • ACEi or ARB                              |
|                                       | • CCB†                                   | • CCB†                                     |
|                                       | • Diuretic‡                              | • Diuretic‡                                |

Not meeting goal on two agents

Assess BP goals§ and adverse effects

| Treatment tolerated and goal achieved | Not meeting goal or adverse effects using a drug from each of three classes                                     |
| ------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Continue therapy                      | Consider addition of mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist; refer to specialist with expertise in BP management |

Figure 10.2—Recommendations for the treatment of confirmed hypertension in nonpregnant people with diabetes. *An ACE inhibitor (ACEi) or angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) is suggested for the treatment of hypertension in people with coronary artery disease (CAD) or urine albumin-to-creatinine ratio 30–299 mg/g creatinine and is strongly recommended for individuals with urine albumin-to-creatinine ratio ≥300 mg/g creatinine. †Dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker (CCB). ‡Thiazide-like diuretic; long-acting agents shown to reduce cardiovascular events, such as chlorthalidone and indapamide, are preferred. §If it can be safely attained, the on-treatment blood pressure goal is &#x3C;130/80 mmHg; a systolic blood pressure goal &#x3C;120 mmHg should be encouraged in individuals with high cardiovascular or kidney risk. BP, blood pressure. Adapted from de Boer et al. (24).

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf from Downloaded





diabetesjournals.org/care
# Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management

to be harmed by intensive blood pressure management (49,50). Absolute benefit from blood pressure reduction correlated with absolute baseline cardiovascular risk in SPRINT and in earlier clinical trials conducted at higher baseline blood pressure levels (50,51). The results of BPROAD and ESPRIT highlight that targeting an on-treatment systolic blood pressure goal of &#x3C;120 mmHg in people with high cardiovascular risk is associated with reduction in cardiovascular events compared with systolic blood pressure &#x3C;140 mmHg. These benefits should be weighed against treatment-related adverse events such as hypotension and syncope, which may be particularly relevant in older individuals with orthostatic hypotension, substantial comorbidity, functional limitations, or polypharmacy and some individuals who may prefer higher blood pressure goals to enhance quality of life.

# Treatment Strategies

# Lifestyle Intervention

Recommendation

- 10.5 For people with diabetes and blood pressure >120/80 mmHg, advise lifestyle behaviors including weight loss when indicated, a Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH)–style eating pattern including reducing sodium, limiting or avoiding alcohol consumption, increased physical activity, and smoking cessation. A

Lifestyle management is an important component of hypertension treatment because it lowers blood pressure, enhances the effectiveness of some antihypertensive medications, promotes other aspects of metabolic and vascular health, and generally leads to few adverse effects. Lifestyle therapy consists of reducing excess body weight through caloric restriction (see section 8, “Obesity and Weight Management for the Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes”), at least 150 min of moderate-intensity aerobic activity per week (see section 3, “Prevention or Delay of Diabetes and Associated Comorbidities”), restricting sodium intake (&#x3C;2,300 mg/day), increasing consumption of fruits and vegetables (8–10 servings per day) and low-fat dairy products or nondairy alternatives (2–3 servings per day), avoiding excessive alcohol consumption (no more than 2 servings per day in men and no more than 1 serving per day in women) (52), and increasing activity levels (53) (see section 5, “Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being to Improve Health Outcomes”).

# PHARMACOLOGIC INTERVENTIONS

Recommendations

- 10.6 In individuals with confirmed office-based blood pressure ≥130/80 mmHg, pharmacologic therapy should be initiated and titrated to achieve their individualized blood pressure goal. A
- 10.7 Individuals with confirmed office-based blood pressure ≥150/90 mmHg should, in addition to lifestyle therapy, have prompt initiation and timely titration of two drugs or a single-pill combination of drugs for hypertension that have also been demonstrated to reduce cardiovascular events in people with diabetes. A
- 10.8 Treatment for hypertension should include drug classes demonstrated to reduce cardiovascular events in people with diabetes. A ACE inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) are recommended first-line therapy for hypertension in people with diabetes and albuminuria or coronary artery disease. A
- 10.9 Multiple-drug therapy is generally required to achieve blood pressure goals. However, avoid any combination of ACE inhibitors, ARBs, MRAs, direct renin inhibitors, and neprilysin inhibitors, as they are contraindicated in pregnancy. A

Initial treatment for people with diabetes depends on the severity of hypertension (Fig. 10.2). Those with blood pressure between 130/80 mmHg and 150/90 mmHg may begin with a single drug. For individuals with blood pressure ≥150/90 mmHg, initial pharmacologic treatment with two antihypertensive medications is recommended to more effectively achieve blood pressure goals (57–59). Single-pill antihypertensive combinations may improve medication-taking behavior in some individuals (60,61).

# Classes of Antihypertensive Medications

Initial treatment for hypertension should include any of the drug classes demonstrated to reduce cardiovascular events in people with diabetes (27): ACE inhibitors (62), angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) (62), thiazide-like diuretics (63), or dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers (64).

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf from Downloaded




# Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management

# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

In people with diabetes and established coronary artery disease, ACE inhibitors or ARBs are recommended first-line therapy for hypertension (65–67). For individuals with albuminuria (urine albumin-to-creatinine ratio [UACR] ≥30 mg/g), initial treatment should include an ACE inhibitor or ARB to reduce the risk of progressive kidney disease (24) (Fig. 10.2). In individuals receiving ACE inhibitor or ARB therapy, continuation of those medications as kidney function declines to eGFR &#x3C;30 mL/min/1.73 m² may provide cardiovascular benefit without significantly increasing the risk of kidney failure (68). In the absence of albuminuria, risk of progressive kidney disease is low, and ACE inhibitors and ARBs have not been found to afford superior cardioprotection compared with thiazide-like diuretics or dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers (69). β-Blockers are indicated in the setting of prior MI, active angina, or HFrEF but have not been shown to reduce mortality as blood pressure–lowering agents in the absence of these conditions (36,70,71).

# Multiple-Drug Therapy

Multiple-drug therapy is often required to achieve blood pressure goals (Fig. 10.2), particularly in the setting of CKD in people with diabetes. However, the use of both ACE inhibitors and ARBs in combination, or the combination of an ACE inhibitor or ARB and a direct renin inhibitor, is contraindicated given the lack of added ASCVD benefit and increased rate of adverse events—namely, hyperkalemia, syncope, and AKI (74–76). Titration of and/or addition of further blood pressure medications should be made in a timely fashion to overcome therapeutic inertia in achieving blood pressure goals. However, this may not be feasible in all practice settings (25).

# Hyperkalemia and Acute Kidney Injury

Treatment with ACE inhibitors and ARBs or MRAs can cause AKI and hyperkalemia, while diuretics can cause AKI and either hypokalemia or hyperkalemia (depending on mechanism of action) (77,78). Elevations in serum creatinine (up to 30% from baseline) with ACE inhibitors or ARBs must not be confused with AKI (79). AKI is defined as a rapid decline in kidney function, typically within a short period (hours to days), characterized by increase in serum creatinine and/or decrease in urine output (80). Serum creatinine and potassium should be monitored after initiation of treatment with an ACE inhibitor or ARB, MRA, or diuretic and monitored during treatment and following uptitration of these medications, particularly among individuals with reduced glomerular filtration (77,78,81). For more information on AKI, see section 11, “Chronic Kidney Disease and Risk Management.”

# Pregnancy and Antihypertensive Medications

Please refer to section 15, “Management of Diabetes in Pregnancy,” for additional information on pregnancy blood pressure goals and treatment. During pregnancy, treatment with ACE inhibitors, ARBs, direct renin inhibitors, mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (MRAs), and neprilysin inhibitors are contraindicated, as they may cause fetal damage. Special consideration should be taken for individuals of childbearing potential, and people intending to become pregnant should switch from an ACE inhibitor or ARB, renin inhibitor, MRA, or neprilysin inhibitor to an alternative antihypertensive medication approved for use during pregnancy. Antihypertensive drugs known to be effective and safe in pregnancy include methyldopa, labetalol, and long-acting nifedipine, while hydralazine may be considered in the acute management of hypertension in pregnancy or severe preeclampsia (72). Diuretics are not recommended for blood pressure management in pregnancy but may be used during late-stage pregnancy if needed for volume management (72).

# Resistant Hypertension

Recommendation 10.13: Individuals with hypertension who are not meeting blood pressure goals on three classes of antihypertensive medications (including a diuretic) should be considered for MRA therapy.

# Lipid Management

Recommendation 10.14: Lifestyle modification focusing on weight loss (if indicated); application of a Mediterranean or DASH eating pattern; reduction of saturated fat and trans fat; increase of dietary n-3 fatty acids, soluble fiber, and plant stanol and sterol intake; and increased physical activity should be recommended to improve the lipid profile and reduce the risk of developing atherosclerotic.

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf Downloaded





diabetesjournals.org/care
# Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management

cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) in people with diabetes.

# Recommendations

10.15 Intensify lifestyle therapy and optimize glycemic management for people with diabetes with elevated triglyceride levels (≥150 mg/dL [≥1.7 mmol/L]) and/or low HDL cholesterol (&#x3C;40 mg/dL [&#x3C;1.0 mmol/L] for men and &#x3C;50 mg/dL [&#x3C;1.3 mmol/L] for women). C

10.24 In people with diabetes intolerant to statin therapy, treatment with bempedoic acid is recommended to reduce cardiovascular event rates as an alternative cholesterol-lowering plan. A

10.25 In most circumstances, lipid-lowering agents should be stopped prior to conception and avoided in sexually active individuals of childbearing potential who are not using reliable contraception. B In some circumstances (e.g., familial hypercholesterolemia, familial hypertriglyceridemia, prior ASCVD event, or history of pancreatitis), lipid-lowering therapy may be continued when the benefits outweigh risks. E

Recommendations should focus on application of a Mediterranean (87) or DASH eating pattern, reducing saturated and trans fat intake, and increasing plant stanol and sterol, n-3 fatty acid, and viscous fiber (such as in oats, legumes, and citrus) intake (22,86). Glycemic management may also beneficially modify plasma lipid levels, particularly in people with very high triglycerides and poor glycemic management.

See section 5, “Facilitating Positive Health Behaviors and Well-being to Improve Health Outcomes,” for additional nutrition information.

# STATIN TREATMENT

# Primary Prevention

10.18 For people with diabetes aged 40–75 years without ASCVD, use moderate-intensity statin therapy in addition to lifestyle therapy. A

10.19 For people with diabetes aged 20–39 years with additional ASCVD risk factors, it may be reasonable to initiate statin therapy in addition to lifestyle therapy. C

10.20 For people with diabetes aged 40–75 years at higher cardiovascular risk, including those with one or more additional ASCVD risk factors, high-intensity statin therapy is recommended to reduce LDL cholesterol by ≥50% of baseline and to obtain an LDL cholesterol goal of &#x3C;70 mg/dL (&#x3C;1.8 mmol/L). A

# Secondary Prevention

10.26 For people of all ages with diabetes and ASCVD, high-intensity statin therapy should be added to lifestyle therapy. A

10.27 For people with diabetes and ASCVD, treatment with high-intensity statin therapy is recommended to obtain an LDL cholesterol reduction of ≥50% from baseline and an LDL cholesterol goal of &#x3C;55 mg/dL (&#x3C;1.4 mmol/L). Addition of ezetimibe or a PCSK9 inhibitor with proven benefit in this population is recommended if this goal is not achieved on maximum tolerated statin therapy. B

# Ongoing Therapy and Monitoring With Lipid Panel

10.16 In adults with prediabetes or diabetes not taking statins or other lipid-lowering therapy, it is reasonable to obtain a lipid profile at the time of diagnosis, at an initial medical evaluation, annually thereafter, or more frequently if indicated. E

10.17 Obtain a lipid profile at initiation of statins or other lipid-lowering therapy, 4–12 weeks after initiation or a change in dose, and annually thereafter, as it facilitates monitoring the response to therapy and informs medication-taking behavior. A

10.28a For individuals who do not tolerate the intended statin intensity, the maximum tolerated statin dose should be used. E

10.28b For people with diabetes and ASCVD intolerant to statin therapy, PCSK9 monoclonal antibody therapy, bempedoic acid therapy, or PCSK9 inhibitor therapy with inclisiran siRNA should be considered as an alternative cholesterol-lowering therapy.

# Initiating Statin Therapy

People with type 2 diabetes have an increased prevalence of lipid abnormalities, contributing to their high risk of ASCVD. Multiple clinical trials have demonstrated

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf from Downloaded




# Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management

# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

the beneficial effects of statin therapy on ASCVD outcomes in subjects with and without established ASCVD (92,93). Subgroup analyses of people with diabetes in larger trials (94–98) and trials in people with diabetes (99,100) showed significant primary and secondary prevention of ASCVD events and coronary heart disease (CHD) death in people with diabetes. Meta-analyses including data from >18,000 people with diabetes from 14 randomized trials of statin therapy (mean follow-up 4.3 years) demonstrated a 9% proportional reduction in all-cause mortality and 13% reduction in vascular mortality for each 1 mmol/L (39 mg/dL) reduction in LDL cholesterol (101). The cardiovascular benefit in this large meta-analysis did not depend on baseline LDL cholesterol levels and was linearly related to the LDL cholesterol reduction without a low threshold beyond which there was no benefit observed (101). It is important to note that the effects of statin therapy do not differ based on sex (92). Accordingly, statins are the drugs of choice for LDL cholesterol lowering and cardioprotection.

# Primary Prevention (People Without ASCVD)

For primary prevention, moderate-dose statin therapy is recommended for those aged ≥40 years (22,105,106), although high-intensity therapy should be considered in the context of additional ASCVD risk factors, such as older age, hypertension, dyslipidemia, smoking, CKD, or obesity (Fig. 10.3). The evidence is strong for people with diabetes aged 40–75 years, an age-group well represented in statin trials showing benefit. Since cardiovascular risk is enhanced in people with diabetes, as noted above, individuals who also have multiple other coronary risk factors have increased risk, equivalent to that of those with ASCVD. Therefore, current guidelines recommend that in people with diabetes who are ≥75 years of age, moderate-intensity statin therapy is recommended. However, the risk-benefit profile should be routinely evaluated in this population, with downward titration of dose performed as needed. See section 13, “Older Adults,” for more details on clinical considerations for this population.

# Age &#x3C;40 Years and/or Type 1 Diabetes

Very little clinical trial evidence exists for people with type 2 diabetes under the age of 40 years or for people with type 1 diabetes of any age. For pediatric recommendations, see section 14, “Children and Adolescents.” In the Heart Protection Study (lower age limit 40 years), the subgroup of ∼600 people with type 1 diabetes had a reduction in risk proportionately similar, although not statistically significant, to that in people with type 2 diabetes (95). Even though the data are not definitive, similar statin treatment approaches should be considered for people with type 1 or type 2 diabetes, particularly in the presence of other cardiovascular risk factors. Individuals &#x3C;40 years of age have lower risk of developing a cardiovascular event over a 10-year period; however, their lifetime risk of developing CVD and experiencing an MI, stroke, or cardiovascular death is high. For people who are &#x3C;40 years of age and/or have type 1 diabetes with other ASCVD risk factors (such as older age, hypertension,

| High-intensity statin therapy (lowers LDL cholesterol by ≥50%) | Moderate-intensity statin therapy (lowers LDL cholesterol by 30–49%) |
| -------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Atorvastatin 40–80 mg                                          | Atorvastatin 10–20 mg                                                |
| Rosuvastatin 20–40 mg                                          | Rosuvastatin 5–10 mg                                                 |
|                                                                | Simvastatin 20–40 mg                                                 |
|                                                                | Pravastatin 40–80 mg                                                 |
|                                                                | Lovastatin 40 mg                                                     |
|                                                                | Fluvastatin XL 80 mg                                                 |
|                                                                | Pitavastatin 1–4 mg                                                  |

Once-daily dosing. XL, extended release.

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf from Downloaded





diabetesjournals.org/care
# Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management

# Lipid management for primary prevention of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease events in people with diabetes in addition to healthy behavior modification

| In people 20-39 years of age                                                 | Consider statin therapy if there are additional ASCVD risk factors.\*                                                                                           |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Use moderate-intensity statin therapy in those without ASCVD risk factors.\* | Use bempedoic acid for those who are statin intolerant.                                                                                                         |
| Use a high-intensity statin in those with ≥1 ASCVD risk factor,\*            | It may be reasonable to add ezetimibe or anti-PCSK9 therapy with proven cardiovascular benefit to maximum tolerated statin therapy if LDL goal is not achieved. |
| In people >75 years of age                                                   | Continue current statin therapy or consider initiating a moderate-intensity statin after weighing benefits and risks.                                           |

Figure 10.3—Recommendations for primary prevention of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) in people with diabetes using cholesterol-lowering therapy. *ASCVD risk factors include older age, hypertension, dyslipidemia, smoking, chronic kidney disease, or obesity. Adapted from “Standards of Care in Diabetes—2024 Abridged for Primary Care Professionals” (315).

In individuals with dyslipidemia, smoking, CKD, or obesity, it is recommended that the individual and health care professional discuss the relative benefits and risks and consider the use of moderate-intensity statin therapy. Please refer to “Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus and Cardiovascular Disease: A Scientific Statement From the American Heart Association and American Diabetes Association” (113) for additional discussion.

Recent data from the PCSK9 inhibitor trial FOURIER (Further Cardiovascular Outcomes Research With PCSK9 Inhibition in Subjects With Elevated Risk) suggest that LDL cholesterol–lowering benefit has important cardiovascular risk reduction benefits in people with type 1 diabetes and established CVD, as discussed in SECONDARY PREVENTION (PEOPLE WITH ASCVD), below (114).

# Secondary Prevention (People With ASCVD)

Intensive therapy is indicated because cardiovascular event rates are increased in people with diabetes and established ASCVD, and it has been shown to be of benefit in multiple large meta-analyses and randomized cardiovascular outcomes trials (93,101,104,112,115). High-intensity statin therapy is recommended for all people with diabetes and ASCVD to obtain an LDL cholesterol reduction of ≥50% from baseline and an LDL cholesterol goal of &#x3C;55 mg/dL (&#x3C;1.4 mmol/L) (Fig. 10.4).

The addition of ezetimibe or a PCSK9 inhibitor is recommended if this goal is not achieved on maximum tolerated statin therapy. These recommendations are based on the observation that high-intensity versus moderate-intensity statin therapy reduces cardiovascular event rates in high-risk individuals with established CVD in randomized trials (93). The Cholesterol Treatment Trialists’ Collaboration, involving 26 statin trials, of which 5 compared high-intensity versus moderate-intensity statins, showed a 21% reduction in major cardiovascular events in people with diabetes for every 39 mg/dL (1 mmol/L) of LDL cholesterol lowering, irrespective of baseline LDL cholesterol or individual characteristics (101).

The evidence to support lower LDL cholesterol goals in people with diabetes and established CVD derives from multiple large, randomized trials investigating the benefits of adding nonstatin agents to statin therapy, including combination treatment with statins and ezetimibe (112,116) or PCSK9 inhibitors (115,117–119). Each trial found a large benefit in reducing ASCVD events that was directly.

# Lipid management for secondary prevention of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease events in people with diabetes

| Use lifestyle and high-intensity statin therapy to reduce | LDL cholesterol goals are not                | Consider alternative lipid-lowering treatment for those who are statin intolerant |
| --------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|                                                           | achieved on maximum tolerated statin therapy | • Monoclonal antibody with proven cardiovascular benefit                          |
|                                                           |                                              | • Bempedoic acid                                                                  |

Figure 10.4—Recommendations for secondary prevention of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) in people with diabetes using cholesterol-lowering therapy. Adapted from “Standards of Care in Diabetes—2024 Abridged for Primary Care Professionals” (315).

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf from Downloaded




# Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management

# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

related to the degree of further LDL cholesterol lowering. A large number of participants with diabetes were included in these trials, and prespecified analyses were completed to evaluate cardiovascular outcomes in people with and without diabetes (116,118,119). The decision to add a non-statin agent should be made following a discussion between a clinician and a person with diabetes about the net benefit, safety, and cost of combination therapy.

# Combination Therapy for LDL Cholesterol Lowering

# Statins and Ezetimibe

The best evidence for combination therapy of statins and ezetimibe comes from the IMProved Reduction of Outcomes: Vytorin Efficacy International Trial (IMPROVE-IT). The trial showed the addition of ezetimibe to a moderate-intensity statin led to a 6.4% relative benefit and a 2% absolute reduction in major adverse cardiovascular events (atherosclerotic cardiovascular events), with the degree of benefit being directly proportional to the change in LDL cholesterol (112). A subanalysis of participants with diabetes (27% of the 18,144 participants) showed a significant reduction of major adverse cardiovascular events with the combination treatment over moderate-intensity statin alone (116).

# Statins and PCSK9 Inhibitors

The addition of the PCSK9 monoclonal antibodies evolocumab and alirocumab to maximum tolerated doses of statin therapy in participants who were at high risk for ASCVD demonstrated an average reduction in LDL cholesterol ranging from 52% to 65% (120,121). No cardiovascular outcome trials have been performed to assess whether PCSK9 inhibitor therapy reduces ASCVD event rates in individuals at low or moderate risk for ASCVD (primary prevention). The evidence on the effect of PSCK9 monoclonal antibodies on ASCVD outcomes is from studies of treatment with alirocumab and evolocumab.

When added to a maximally tolerated statin, these agents reduced LDL cholesterol by ∼60% (115) and significantly reduced the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events by 15–20% in the FOURIER (evolocumab) and ODYSSEY OUTCOMES (Evaluation of Cardiovascular Outcomes After an Acute Coronary Syndrome During Treatment With Alirocumab) trials (115,117,122). In the subanalyses of the participants with diabetes (40% in FOURIER and 28.8% in ODYSSEY OUTCOMES), similar benefits were seen compared with those for individuals without diabetes in FOURIER (119), whereas a greater absolute risk reduction was seen for participants with diabetes (2.3% [95% CI 0.4–4.2]) than for those with pre-diabetes (1.2% [0.0–2.4]) or normoglycemia (1.2% [−0.3–2.7]) in the ODYSSEY OUTCOMES trial (118).

# PCSK9-Directed Therapies

The Study of Alirocumab in Patients With Primary Hypercholesterolemia and Moderate, High, or Very High Cardiovascular Risk, Who Are Intolerant to Statins (ODYSSEY ALTERNATIVE) trial studied the reduction in LDL cholesterol with alirocumab compared with ezetimibe or 20 mg atorvastatin in individuals at moderate to very high cardiovascular risk for 24 weeks. The proportion of the study population with type 2 diabetes was ∼24%. After the 24 weeks, alirocumab lowered LDL cholesterol levels by 54.8% versus 20.1% with ezetimibe. There were similar rates of any adverse event for all treatments; however, fewer events that led to treatment discontinuation and few skeletal muscle–related adverse events occurred with alirocumab (128).

# Intolerance to Statin Therapy

Statin therapy is a cornerstone of CVD prevention and treatment; however, a subset of individuals experience partial (inability to tolerate sufficient dosage necessary to achieve therapeutic objectives due to adverse effects) or complete (inability to tolerate any dose) intolerance to statin therapy (127). Although the definition of statin intolerance differs between organizations and across clinical study methods, these individuals will require an alternative treatment approach. Initial steps in people intolerant to statins may include switching to a different high-intensity statin if a high-intensity statin is indicated, switching to moderate-intensity or low-intensity statin, lowering the statin dose, or using nondaily dosing with statins. While considering these alternative treatment plans, the addition of nonstatin treatment plans to maximum tolerated statin therapy should be considered, as these are frequently associated with improved medication-taking behavior and achievement of LDL cholesterol goals (127).

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf from Downloaded





diabetesjournals.org/care
# Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management

S227

ezetimibe alone in individuals with statin intolerance. Reductions in LDL cholesterol ranged from 55% and 56% for evolocumab bi-weekly and monthly plus daily oral placebo, respectively, to 19% and 16% for ezetimibe daily plus biweekly or monthly subcutaneous placebo, respectively. Fewer musculoskeletal adverse effects occurred in those treated with evolocumab or ezetimibe than in those treated with ezetimibe plus placebo, although rates of discontinuation due to these effects were similar. Use of low-dose statins was allowed in these studies and was associated with an increase in the incidence of musculoskeletal adverse effects (129,130). Similar LDL cholesterol reductions were demonstrated in the GAUSS 3 trial after 24 weeks (54.5% with evolocumab compared with 16.7% with ezetimibe), with slightly higher rates of musculoskeletal adverse events (20.7% with evolocumab and 28.8% with ezetimibe). The higher rates of these adverse events may be due in part to the first phase of this trial, which randomized individuals to a statin rechallenge with either atorvastatin or placebo (131).

# Inclisiran

Inclisiran, a PCSK9 siRNA, has also been proposed as an option for individuals with statin intolerance. Although most of the individuals in studies of inclisiran were on statin therapy, one short-term study (Trial to Evaluate the Effect of ALN-PCSSC Treatment on Low-density Lipoprotein Cholesterol [ORION-1]) included individuals with documented statin intolerance (132) and could continue into an open-label extension trial (Extension Trial of Inclisiran in Participants With Cardiovascular Disease and High Cholesterol [ORION-3]), where an LDL cholesterol reduction of ∼45% was maintained through the end of year 4 (133). It is important to note that of the ORION-3 participants, 23% had diabetes and 33% were not taking statin therapy. Although it may be expected that those with statin intolerance experienced a response similar to the response of those on statin therapy, evaluation of response based on background lipid-lowering therapy was not described.

# Bempedoic Acid

Bempedoic acid, a newer LDL cholesterol–lowering agent targeting the same pathway as statins but without activity in skeletal muscle, thus limiting muscle-related adverse effects, lowers LDL cholesterol levels by 15% for those on statins and 24% for those not taking statins (134). Use of this agent with ezetimibe results in an additional 19% reduction in LDL cholesterol (134). The Evaluation of Major Cardiovascular Events in Patients With, or at High Risk for, Cardiovascular Disease Who Are Statin Intolerant Treated With Bempedoic Acid or Placebo (CLEAR Outcomes) trial found a reduction in four-point major adverse cardiovascular events by 13% compared with placebo for individuals with established ASCVD (70% of population) or at high risk for ASCVD (30% of population) and considered to be intolerant to statin therapy. It is important to note that ∼19% of individuals were on very-low-dose statin therapy at baseline (135). Prespecified subanalyses evaluated the impact for individuals with diabetes and showed a 17% reduction in four-point major adverse cardiovascular events when treated with bempedoic acid (136). For individuals requiring primary prevention, the use of bempedoic acid resulted in a 30% reduction in primary composite outcome compared with placebo (137).

# Lipid-Lowering Care Considerations for Individuals of Childbearing Potential

Individuals of childbearing potential are less likely to be treated with statins or achieve their LDL cholesterol goals based on their cardiovascular risk (138–140). This is likely related to concerns and lack of familiarity with the use of lipid-lowering agents during pregnancy. The trials evaluating the efficacy and safety of lipid-lowering medications exclude individuals who are pregnant and require individuals of childbearing potential to use contraception (some requiring two forms). Therefore, for many pregnant individuals, it is recommended that they discontinue lipid-lowering therapies during gestation. However, for individuals at higher risk for cardiovascular events (e.g., those with familial hypercholesterolemia or preexisting ASCVD), the risk of discontinuing all lipid-lowering therapy during preconception and pregnancy should be reviewed and weighed against an increased risk for cardiovascular events. Consideration of initiating statin therapy during pregnancy should occur with these high-risk individuals. Although the evidence is limited, statins did not increase teratogenic effects for individuals with familial hypercholesterolemia (141,142), and a meta-analysis of pravastatin in pregnant individuals showed a reduction in preeclampsia, and neonatal intensive care unit admissions (143). There is limited information regarding the use of lipid-lowering therapies (other than bile acid sequestrants) during pregnancy. Thus, it is recommended that individuals of childbearing potential use a form of contraception when also using lipid-lowering medications with unknown risks, limited evidence on safety, or known risks during pregnancy regardless of intention to become pregnant, and preconception counseling should be part of the routine care of individuals with diabetes who have childbearing potential. Counseling should include the known benefits and risks of lipid-lowering medications versus the risks and benefits of not treating the conditions for which they are prescribed, as well as other medications (e.g., noninsulin glucose-lowering therapies and antihypertensive agents), during pregnancy and recommendations for when changes in medications should occur prior to pregnancy (138) (see section 15, “Management of Diabetes in Pregnancy,” for more information on preconception counseling and lipid-lowering treatment during pregnancy).

# Treatment of Other Lipoprotein Fractions or Goals

Recommendations

- 10.29 For individuals with fasting triglyceride levels ≥500 mg/dL (≥5.7 mmol/L), evaluate for secondary causes of hypertriglyceridemia and consider medical therapy to reduce the risk of pancreatitis. C
- 10.30 In adults with hypertriglyceridemia (fasting triglycerides >150 mg/dL [>1.7 mmol/L] or nonfasting triglycerides >175 mg/dL [>2.0 mmol/L]), clinicians should address and treat lifestyle factors (obesity and metabolic syndrome), secondary factors (diabetes, chronic liver or kidney disease and/or nephrotic syndrome, and hypothyroidism), and medications that raise triglycerides. C
- 10.31 In individuals with ASCVD or other cardiovascular risk factors on a statin with managed LDL cholesterol but elevated triglycerides (150–499 mg/dL [1.7–5.6 mmol/L]), the addition of icosapent ethyl can be considered to reduce cardiovascular risk. B

Hypertriglyceridemia should be addressed with nutritional and lifestyle modifications.

2026 January




# Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management

# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

Changes, including weight loss and abstinence from alcohol (144). Severe hypertriglyceridemia (fasting triglycerides ≥500 mg/dL [≥5.7 mmol/L] and especially >1,000 mg/dL [>11.3 mmol/L]) may warrant pharmacologic therapy (fibric acid derivatives and/or fish oil) and reduction in fat intake to reduce the risk of acute pancreatitis (145). Moderate- or high-intensity statin therapy should also be used as indicated to reduce risk of cardiovascular events (see STATIN TREATMENT, above) (144,146). In people with hypertriglyceridemia (fasting triglycerides >150 mg/dL [>1.7 mmol/L] or nonfasting triglycerides >175 mg/dL [>2.0 mmol/L]), lifestyle interventions, treatment of secondary factors, and avoidance of medications that might raise triglycerides are recommended.

For individuals with established CVD or with risk factors for CVD with elevated triglycerides (150–499 mg/dL [1.7–5.6 mmol/L]) after maximizing statin therapy, icosapent ethyl may be added to reduce cardiovascular risk. The Reduction of Cardiovascular Events with Icosapent Ethyl-Intervention Trial (REDUCE-IT) showed that the addition of icosapent ethyl to statin therapy in this population resulted in a 25% relative risk reduction (P &#x3C; 0.001) for the primary endpoint composite of cardiovascular death, nonfatal MI, nonfatal stroke, coronary revascularization, or unstable angina compared with placebo. This risk reduction was seen in individuals with or without diabetes at baseline. The composite of cardiovascular death, nonfatal MI, or nonfatal stroke was reduced by 26% (P &#x3C; 0.001). Additional ischemic end points were significantly lower in the icosapent ethyl group than in the placebo group, including cardiovascular death, which was reduced by 20% (P = 0.03). The proportions of individuals experiencing adverse events and serious adverse events were similar between the active and placebo treatment groups.

Current evidence from randomized trials does not support cardiovascular risk reduction for other n-3 fatty acids, and results of the REDUCE-IT trial should not be extrapolated to other products (147). As an example, the addition of 4 g per day of a carboxylic acid formulation of the n-3 fatty acids eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) (n-3 carboxylic acid) to statin therapy in individuals with atherogenic dyslipidemia and high cardiovascular risk, 70% of whom had diabetes, did not reduce the risk of major cardiovascular events.

# Statin and Niacin Combination Therapy

Combination therapy with a statin and niacin is not recommended, given the lack of efficacy on major ASCVD outcomes and increased side effects. Monotherapy with niacin is also not recommended. Large clinical trials, including the Atherothrombosis Intervention in Metabolic Syndrome With Low HDL/High Triglycerides: Impact on Global Health Outcomes (AIM-HIGH) and Heart Protection Study 2–Treatment of HDL to Reduce the Incidence of Vascular Events (HPS2-THRIVE) trials, failed to demonstrate a benefit of adding niacin to individuals on appropriate statin therapy. In fact, there was a possible increased risk of ischemic stroke in the AIM-HIGH trial (154) and an increased incidence of new-onset diabetes (absolute excess, 1.3 percentage points; P &#x3C; 0.001) and disturbances in diabetes management among those with diabetes in the HPS2-THRIVE trial in those on combination therapy (155).

# Diabetes Risk With Statin Use

Several studies have reported a modestly increased risk of incident type 2 diabetes with statin use (156,157), which may be limited to those with diabetes risk factors and/or impaired glucose tolerance. An analysis of one of the initial studies suggested that although statin use was associated with diabetes risk, the cardiovascular event rate reduction with statins far outweighed the risk of incident diabetes, even for individuals at highest risk for diabetes (158). The absolute risk increase was small (over 5 years of follow-up, 1.2% of participants on placebo developed diabetes and 1.5% on rosuvastatin developed diabetes) (158). A meta-analysis of 13 randomized statin trials with 91,140 participants showed an odds ratio of 1.09 for a new diagnosis of diabetes, so that (on average) treatment of 255 individuals with statins for 4 years resulted in one additional case of diabetes while simultaneously preventing 5.4 vascular events among those 255 individuals (157).

# Lipid-Lowering Agents and Cognitive Function

Although concerns regarding a potential adverse impact of lipid-lowering agents on cognitive function have been raised, several lines of evidence argue against this association, as detailed in a 2018 European Atherosclerosis Society Consensus.

January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf





diabetesjournals.org/care
# Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management

S229

# Panel statement (159)

First, there are three large, randomized trials of statin versus placebo where specific cognitive tests were performed, and no differences were seen between statin and placebo (160–163). In addition, no change in cognitive function has been reported in studies with the addition of ezetimibe (112) or PCSK9 monoclonal antibodies (115,164) to statin therapy, including among individuals treated to very low LDL cholesterol levels. In addition, systematic reviews of randomized controlled trials and prospective cohort studies evaluating cognition in individuals receiving statins found that published data do not reveal an adverse effect of statins on cognition (165,166). Therefore, a concern that statins or other lipid-lowering agents might cause cognitive dysfunction or dementia is not currently supported by evidence and should not deter their use in individuals with diabetes at high risk for ASCVD (167).

The Antithrombotic Trialists’ Collaboration published an individual participant–level meta-analysis (172) of six large trials of aspirin for primary prevention in the general population. These trials collectively enrolled over 95,000 participants, which 11% of participants had diabetes, found no benefit of aspirin on the primary efficacy end point and an increased risk of bleeding. In ARRIVE, with 12,546 individuals over a period of 60 months of follow-up, the primary end point occurred in 4.29% vs. 4.48% of individuals in the aspirin versus placebo groups (HR 0.96 [95% CI 0.81–1.13]; P = 0.60). Gastrointestinal bleeding events (characterized as mild) occurred in 0.97% of individuals in the aspirin group vs. 0.46% in the placebo group (HR 2.11 [95% CI 1.36–3.28]; P = 0.0007). In ASPREE, which included 19,114 individuals, for CVD (fatal CHD, MI, stroke, or hospitalization for heart failure) after a median of 4.7 years of follow-up, the rates per 1,000 person-years were 10.7 vs. 11.3 events in aspirin vs. placebo groups (HR 0.95 [95% CI 0.83–1.08]). The rate of major hemorrhage per 1,000 person-years was 8.6 events versus 6.2 events, respectively (HR 1.38 [95% CI 1.18–1.62]; P &#x3C; 0.001).

# ANTIPLATELET AGENTS

# Recommendations

- 10.33 Use aspirin therapy (75–162 mg/day) as a secondary prevention strategy in those with diabetes and a history of ASCVD. A
- 10.34a For individuals with ASCVD and documented aspirin allergy, clopidogrel (75 mg/day) should be used. B
- 10.34b The length of treatment with dual antiplatelet therapy using low-dose aspirin and a P2Y12 inhibitor in individuals with diabetes after an acute coronary syndrome, acute ischemic stroke, or transient ischemic attack should be determined by an interprofessional team approach that includes a cardiovascular or neurological specialist, respectively. E
- 10.35 Combination therapy with 81 mg aspirin daily plus 2.5 mg rivaroxaban twice daily should be considered for individuals with stable coronary and/or peripheral artery disease (PAD) and low bleeding risk to prevent major adverse limb and cardiovascular events. A
- 10.36 Aspirin therapy (75–162 mg/day) may be considered as a primary prevention strategy in those with diabetes who are at increased cardiovascular risk after a comprehensive discussion with the individual on the benefits versus the comparable increased risk of bleeding. A

Including almost 4,000 with diabetes. Overall, they found that aspirin reduced the risk of serious vascular events by 12% (relative risk 0.88 [95% CI 0.82–0.94]). The largest reduction was for nonfatal MI, with little effect on CHD death (relative risk 0.95 [95% CI 0.78–1.15]) or total stroke. Most recently, the ASCEND (A Study of Cardiovascular Events in Diabetes) trial randomized 15,480 people with diabetes but no evident CVD to aspirin 100 mg daily or placebo (173). The primary efficacy end point was vascular death, MI, stroke, or transient ischemic attack. The primary safety outcome was major bleeding (i.e., intracranial hemorrhage, sight-threatening bleeding in the eye, gastrointestinal bleeding, or other serious bleeding). During a mean follow-up of 7.4 years, there was a significant 12% reduction in the primary efficacy end point (8.5% vs. 9.6%; P = 0.01). In contrast, major bleeding was significantly increased from 3.2 to 4.1% in the aspirin group (rate ratio 1.29; P = 0.003), with most of the excess being gastrointestinal bleeding and other extracranial bleeding. There were no significant differences by sex, weight, or duration of diabetes or other baseline factors, including ASCVD risk score.

Two other large, randomized trials of aspirin for primary prevention, in people without diabetes (ARRIVE [Aspirin to Reduce Risk of Initial Vascular Events]) (174) and in the elderly (ASPREE [Aspirin in Reducing Events in the Elderly]) (175), in the context of high cardiovascular risk with low bleeding risk but generally not in older adults. Aspirin therapy for primary prevention may be considered in the context of shared decision-making.

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf from Downloaded



S230  Cardiovascular Disease and  Risk  Management
# Diabetes Care Volume  49,  Supplement  1,  January  2026

decision-making, which carefully weighs the cardiovascular benefits against the increase in risk of bleeding. For people with documented ASCVD, use of aspirin for secondary prevention has far greater benefit than risk; for this indication, aspirin is still recommended (168).

# Aspirin Use in People &#x3C;50 Years of Age

Aspirin is not recommended for those at low risk of ASCVD (such as men and women aged &#x3C;50 years with diabetes with no other major ASCVD risk factors), as the low benefit is likely to be outweighed by the risk of bleeding. Clinical judgment should be used for those at intermediate risk (younger individuals with one or more risk factors or older individuals with no risk factors) until further research is available. ASCVD risk factors include older age, hypertension, dyslipidemia, smoking, CKD, or obesity. Individuals’ willingness to undergo long-term aspirin therapy should also be considered in shared decision-making (183). Aspirin use in individuals aged &#x3C;21 years is generally contraindicated due to the associated risk of Reye syndrome.

# Aspirin Dosing

Average daily dosages used in most clinical trials involving people with diabetes ranged from 50 to 650 mg but were mostly in the range of 100–325 mg/day. There is little evidence to support any specific dose, but using the lowest possible dose may help to reduce side effects (184). In the ADAPTABLE (Aspirin Dosing: A Patient-Centric Trial Assessing Benefits and Long-term Effectiveness) trial of individuals with established CVD, 38% of whom had diabetes, there were no significant differences in cardiovascular events or major bleeding between individuals assigned to 81 mg and those assigned to 325 mg aspirin daily (185). In the U.S., the most common low-dose tablet is 81 mg, and it appears that 75–162 mg/day is optimal.

# Indications for P2Y12 Receptor Antagonist Use

Combination dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and a P2Y12 receptor antagonist is indicated after acute coronary syndromes and coronary revascularization with stenting (186). Evidence supports use of either ticagrelor or clopidogrel if a percutaneous coronary intervention was performed (187). In people with diabetes and prior MI (1–3 years before), adding ticagrelor to aspirin significantly reduces the risk of recurrent ischemic events, including cardiovascular and CHD death (188). Similarly, the addition of ticagrelor to aspirin reduced the risk of ischemic cardiovascular events compared with aspirin alone in people with diabetes and stable coronary artery disease (189,190). However, a higher incidence of major bleeding, including intracranial hemorrhage, was noted with dual antiplatelet therapy. The net clinical benefit (ischemic benefit vs. bleeding risk) was improved with ticagrelor therapy in the large prespecified subgroup of individuals with history of percutaneous coronary intervention, while no net benefit was seen in individuals without prior percutaneous coronary intervention (190).

The risks and benefits of dual antiplatelet or antiplatelet plus anticoagulant treatment strategies should be thoroughly discussed with eligible individuals, and shared decision-making should be used to determine an individually appropriate treatment approach. This field of cardiovascular risk reduction is evolving rapidly, as are the definitions of optimal care for individuals with differing types and circumstances of cardiovascular complications.

# CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE Screening Recommendations

10.37a In asymptomatic individuals, routine screening for coronary artery disease is not recommended, as it does not improve outcomes as long as ASCVD risk factors are treated.

10.37b Consider investigations for coronary artery disease in the presence of any of the following: signs or symptoms of cardiac or associated vascular disease, including carotid bruits, transient ischemic attack, stroke, claudication, or PAD; or electrocardiographic abnormalities (e.g., pathological Q waves).

10.38a Adults with diabetes are at increased risk for the development of asymptomatic cardiac structural or functional abnormalities (stage B heart failure) or symptomatic (stage C) heart failure. Consider screening adults with diabetes by measuring a natriuretic peptide (B-type natriuretic peptide [BNP] or N-terminal pro-BNP [NT-proBNP]) to facilitate prevention of stage C heart failure.

2026  January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf from Downloaded



diabetesjournals.org/care
# Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management

10.38b In asymptomatic individuals with diabetes and abnormal natriuretic peptide levels, echocardiography is recommended to identify stage B heart failure. A

10.39 In asymptomatic individuals with diabetes and age ≥65 years, microvascular disease in any location, or foot complications or any end-organ damage from diabetes, screening for PAD with ankle-brachial index testing is recommended if a PAD diagnosis would change management. B

10.41b In people with type 2 diabetes and established heart failure with either preserved or reduced ejection fraction, an SGLT2 inhibitor with proven benefit in this population is recommended to improve quality of life. A

10.42 For individuals with type 2 diabetes and CKD with albuminuria treated with maximum tolerated doses of ACE inhibitor or ARB, recommend treatment with a nonsteroidal MRA with demonstrated benefit to improve cardiovascular outcomes and reduce the risk of CKD progression. A

10.44f In individuals with type 2 diabetes and CKD, recommend treatment with a nonsteroidal MRA with demonstrated benefit to reduce the risk of hospitalization for heart failure. A

10.44g In individuals with diabetes, guideline-directed medical therapy for myocardial infarction and symptomatic stage C heart failure is recommended with ACE inhibitors or ARBs (including ARBs and neprilysin inhibitors), MRAs, β-blockers, and SGLT2 inhibitors. A

10.44h In individuals with diabetes and symptomatic stage C heart failure with ejection fraction >40%, a nonsteroidal MRA with proven benefit in reducing worsening heart failure events is recommended. A A nonsteroidal MRA should not be used with an MRA.

# Treatment Recommendations

10.40a Among people with type 2 diabetes who have established ASCVD or chronic kidney disease (CKD), a sodium–glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitor or glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonist (GLP-1 RA) with demonstrated cardiovascular disease benefit is recommended as part of the comprehensive cardiovascular risk reduction and/or glucose-lowering treatment plans. A

10.40b In people with type 2 diabetes and established ASCVD or multiple ASCVD risk factors, or CKD, an SGLT2 inhibitor with demonstrated cardiovascular benefit is recommended to reduce the risk of cardiovascular events. A

10.40c In people with type 2 diabetes and established ASCVD or multiple risk factors for ASCVD, or CKD, a GLP-1 RA with demonstrated cardiovascular benefit is recommended to reduce the risk of cardiovascular events. A

10.40d In people with type 2 diabetes and established ASCVD or multiple risk factors for ASCVD, combined therapy with an SGLT2 inhibitor with demonstrated cardiovascular benefit and a GLP-1 RA with demonstrated cardiovascular benefit may be considered for additive reduction of the risk of adverse cardiovascular and kidney events. B

10.41a In people with type 2 diabetes and established heart failure with either preserved or reduced ejection fraction, an SGLT2 inhibitor (including SGLT1/2 inhibitor) with proven benefit in this population is recommended to reduce the risk of worsening heart failure and cardiovascular death. A

10.41b In people with type 2 diabetes and established heart failure with either preserved or reduced ejection fraction, an SGLT2 inhibitor (including SGLT1/2 inhibitor) with proven benefit in this population is recommended to reduce the risk of worsening heart failure and cardiovascular death. A

10.44a In individuals with diabetes and asymptomatic (stage B) heart failure, an interprofessional approach to optimize guideline-directed medical therapy, which should include a cardiovascular disease specialist, is recommended to reduce the risk for progression to symptomatic (stage C) heart failure. A

10.44b In individuals with diabetes and asymptomatic (stage B) heart failure, ACE inhibitors or ARBs and β-blockers are recommended to reduce the risk for progression to symptomatic (stage C) heart failure. A

10.44c In individuals with type 2 diabetes and asymptomatic (stage B) heart failure or with high risk of or established cardiovascular disease, treatment with an SGLT inhibitor with proven heart failure prevention benefit A or a GLP-1 RA with heart failure prevention benefit B is recommended to reduce the risk of hospitalization for heart failure.

# Cardiac Testing

Candidates for advanced or invasive cardiac testing include those with 1) symptoms or signs of cardiac or vascular disease and 2) an abnormal resting electrocardiogram (ECG). Exercise ECG testing without or with echocardiography may be used as the initial test. In adults with diabetes ≥40 years of age, measurement of coronary artery calcium is also reasonable for cardiovascular risk assessment.

Pharmacologic stress echocardiography or nuclear imaging should be considered in individuals with diabetes in whom resting ECG abnormalities preclude exercise stress testing (e.g., left bundle branch block or ST-T abnormalities). In addition, individuals who require stress testing and are unable to exercise should undergo.

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf from Downloaded




# Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management

# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

pharmacologic stress echocardiography (205,206). This association is not only observed in people with type 2 diabetes but also evident in people with type 1 diabetes (205,206). In a large multinational cohort of 750,000 people with diabetes without established CVD, heart failure and CKD were the most frequent first manifestations of cardiovascular or kidney disease (207). For a detailed review of screening, diagnosis, and treatment recommendations of heart failure in people with diabetes, the reader is further referred to the ADA report “Heart Failure: An Underappreciated Complication of Diabetes. A Consensus Report of the American Diabetes Association” (16).

People with diabetes are at particularly high risk for progression from asymptomatic stage A and B to symptomatic stage C and D heart failure (208,209). Identification, risk stratification, and early treatment of risk factors in people with diabetes and asymptomatic stages of heart failure reduce the risk for progression to symptomatic heart failure (210,211). In people with type 2 diabetes, measurement of natriuretic peptides, including B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) or N-terminal pro-BNP (NT-proBNP), identifies people at risk for heart failure development, progression of symptoms, and heart failure–related mortality (212–214). A similar association and prognostic values of increased NT-proBNP with increased cardiovascular and all-cause mortality has been reported in people with type 1 diabetes (215). Results from several randomized controlled trials revealed that more intensive treatment of risk factors in people with increased levels of natriuretic peptides reduces the risk for symptomatic heart failure, heart failure hospitalization, and newly diagnosed left ventricular dysfunction (211,216,217).

# Screening for Asymptomatic Peripheral Artery Disease in People With Diabetes

The risk for PAD in people with diabetes is higher than that in people without diabetes (220–222). In the PAD Awareness, Risk, and Treatment: New Resources for Survival (PARTNERS) program, 30% of people aged 50–69 years with a history of cigarette smoking or diabetes, or aged ≥70 years regardless of risk factors, had PAD (223). Similarly, in other screening studies, 26% of people with diabetes have been shown to have PAD (224), and diabetes increased the odds of having PAD by 85% (225). Notably, classical symptoms of claudication are uncommon, and almost half of people with newly diagnosed PAD were asymptomatic (223). Many individuals with PAD remain asymptomatic either because they limit physical activity to avoid claudication symptoms or because a comorbid condition prevents them from reaching a threshold of activity to provoke symptoms.

Risk factors associated with an increased risk for PAD in people with diabetes include age, smoking, hypertension, dyslipidemia, worse glycemic management, longer duration of diabetes, neuropathy, and retinopathy as well as a prior history of CVD (226,227). In addition, the presence of microvascular disease is associated with adverse outcomes in people with PAD, including an increased risk for future limb amputation (228,229).

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf from Downloaded





diabetesjournals.org/care
# Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management

a positive screening test for PAD in an asymptomatic population has been associated with increased cardiovascular event rates (230,231), prospective, randomized studies addressing whether screening for PAD in people with diabetes improves long-term limb outcomes and cardiovascular event rates are limited. In the randomized controlled Viborg Vascular (VIVA) trial, 50,156 participants, of whom approximately 10% had diabetes, were randomized to combined vascular screening for abdominal aortic aneurysm, PAD, and hypertension or to no screening. Although the number needed to invite for screening to prevent one death was close to 170, vascular screening was associated with increased pharmacologic therapy (antiplatelet, lipid-lowering, and antihypertensive therapy), reduced in-hospital time for PAD and coronary artery disease, and reduced mortality (232). Therefore, screening is recommended for asymptomatic PAD using ankle-brachial index in people with diabetes in whom a diagnosis of PAD may help further intensify pharmacologic therapies and improve cardiovascular and limb outcomes, such as the intensification of LDL-lowering therapies (233), the initiation of low-dose rivaroxaban therapy (234), or the initiation of GLP-1 RA, as recent clinical trial evidence supports a symptomatic benefit of GLP-1 RA in people with diabetes and PAD (235). These people include those with age ≥65 years, diabetes with duration ≥10 years, microvascular disease, clinical evidence of foot complications, or any end-organ damage from diabetes.

# Lifestyle and Pharmacologic Interventions

Intensive lifestyle intervention focusing on weight loss through decreased caloric intake and increased physical activity, as performed in the Look AHEAD (Action for Health in Diabetes) trial, may be considered for improving glucose management, fitness, and some ASCVD risk factors (236). Individuals at increased ASCVD risk should receive statin, ACE inhibitor, or ARB therapy if the individual has hypertension, and possibly aspirin, unless there are contraindications to a particular drug class. Clear cardiovascular benefits exist for ACE inhibitor or ARB therapy in people with diabetes. The Heart Outcomes Prevention Evaluation (HOPE) study randomized 9,297 individuals aged ≥55 years with a history of vascular disease or diabetes plus one other cardiovascular risk factor to either ramipril or placebo. Ramipril significantly reduced cardiovascular and all-cause mortality, MI, and stroke (237). ACE inhibitors or ARB therapy also have well-established long-term benefit in people with diabetes and CKD or hypertension, and these agents are recommended for hypertension management in people with known ASCVD (particularly coronary artery disease) (66,67,238). People with type 2 diabetes and CKD should be considered for treatment with finerenone to reduce cardiovascular outcomes and the risk of CKD progression (239–242).

β-Blockers should be used in individuals with active angina or HFrEF and for 3 years after MI in those with preserved left ventricular function (243,244).

# Glucose-Lowering Therapies and Cardiovascular Outcomes

In 2008, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued guidance for industry to perform cardiovascular outcomes trials for all new medications for the treatment of type 2 diabetes amid concerns of increased cardiovascular risk (245). Diabetes medications approved prior to 2008 were not subject to the guidance. This guidance was revised in May 2023 (246). Meta-analyses of the trials reported to date suggest that GLP-1 RAs and SGLT2 inhibitors reduce risk of atherosclerotic major adverse cardiovascular events to a comparable degree in people with type 2 diabetes and established ASCVD (262,263).

# SGLT2 Inhibitors

Results of large cardiovascular outcome trials of empagliflozin (10 mg or 25 mg daily) and canagliflozin (100 or 300 mg daily) showed that treatment with either drug reduced rates of MI, stroke, or cardiovascular death. While there was an increased risk of lower-limb amputation with canagliflozin in one trial (247), no significant increase in lower-limb amputations, fractures, AKI, or hyperkalemia was seen in other trials of canagliflozin (248). The major cardiovascular outcome trial of dapagliflozin (10 mg daily) did not show a reduction in the coprimary outcome of MI, stroke, or cardiovascular death but did show a significantly lower rate of the co-primary composite outcome of hospitalization for heart failure or cardiovascular death, which was driven by its effect on hospitalization for heart failure. Cardiovascular outcome trials of ertugliflozin and bexagliflozin have not demonstrated evidence of cardiovascular risk reduction (249,250).

# GLP-1 Receptor Agonists

Results of trials with the GLP-1 RAs liraglutide (once daily) and semaglutide, and dulaglutide. Cardiovascular outcome trials of the dual glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP)/GLP-1 RA tirzepatide are ongoing (261). The efficacy and safety of SGLT2 inhibitors for reduction of cardiovascular and kidney events in people with type 1 diabetes is being investigated and is not currently recommended due to a significant increase of...

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf from Downloaded




S234  Cardiovascular Disease and  Risk  Management    Diabetes Care Volume  49,  Supplement  1,  January  2026

# Prevention and Treatment of Heart Failure

Diabetic ketoacidosis and euglycemic ketoacidosis (266).

# Other Classes

Cardiovascular outcomes trials of dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP-4) inhibitors have not shown cardiovascular benefits relative to placebo. The CAROLINA (Cardiovascular Outcome Study of Linagliptin Versus Glimepiride in Type 2 Diabetes) study demonstrated noninferiority between a DPP-4 inhibitor, linagliptin, and a sulfonylurea, glimepiride, on cardiovascular outcomes despite lower rates of hypoglycemia in the linagliptin treatment group (267).

ACE Inhibitors or ARBs and β-Blockers. Early primary prevention strategies and treatment of associated risk factors reduce incident, symptomatic heart failure and should include lifestyle intervention with nutrition, physical activity, weight management, and smoking cessation (268–271) (Fig. 10.5). The vast majority of incident heart failure is preceded by hypertension; up to 91% of all new heart failure development in the Framingham cohort occurred in people with a previous diagnosis of hypertension. Intensive blood pressure management in people with type 2 diabetes reduced the risk for heart failure by 56% (273). Intensive treatment of hypertension in people with diabetes in the BPROAD trial led to a 34% reduction in treatment or hospitalization for heart failure (HR 0.66, 95% CI 0.41–1.04), a finding that parallels observations from the SPRINT trial where the risk for development of incident heart failure was noted.

# Symptomatic HF

|                   | No                                             | Yes                                          |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| %spYYBpÅvÅilÅbleR | No                                             | Yes                                          |
|                   | • HFrEF GDMT                                   | • HFmrEF/HFpEF GDMT                          |
|                   | • Refer to cardiology                          | • Refer to cardiology                        |
|                   | SGLT2i or SGLT1/2i with demonstrated benefit   | SGLT2i or SGLT1/2i with demonstrated benefit |
|                   | • ARNI or ACEi/ARB if ARNI not tolerated       | If obesity,                                  |
|                   | • β-Blocker with demonstrated benefit          | • demonstrated benefit                       |
|                   | ACEi or ARB if hypertension,                   | • prior MI or CKD                            |
|                   | • nsMRA, SGLT1/2i with demonstrated benefit    |                                              |
| NT                | ?                                              | • Refer to cardiology                        |
|                   | • β-Blocker with demonstrated benefit          |                                              |
| No                | Yes                                            | ACEi or ARB                                  |
|                   | If CKD present, consider                       | Consider echocardiogram                      |
|                   | • SGLT2i or SGLT1/2i with demonstrated benefit |                                              |

Figure 10.5—Overview of recommendations for the prevention and treatment of symptomatic heart failure in people with diabetes. ACEi, ACE inhibitor; ARB, angiotensin receptor blocker; ARNI, angiotensin receptor neprilysin inhibitor; BNP, B-type natriuretic peptide; NT-proBNP, N-terminal pro-B–type natriuretic peptide; CKD, chronic kidney disease; CVD, cardiovascular disease; EF, ejection fraction; eGFR, estimated glomerular filtration rate; GDMT, guideline-directed medical therapy; GIP/GLP-1 RA, glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide and glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist; GLP-1 RA, glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist; HF, heart failure; HFmrEF, heart failure with mildly reduced ejection fraction; HFpEF, heart failure with preserved ejection fraction; HFrEF, heart failure with reduced ejection fraction; HTN, hypertension; MI, myocardial infarction; MRA, mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist; nsMRA, nonsteroidal mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist; SGLT1/2i, sodium–glucose cotransporter 1 and 2 inhibitor; SGLT2i, sodium–glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitor; TTE, transthoracic echocardiography; UACR, urine albumin-to-creatinine ratio.

2026  January
29 on  guest
by     http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf
from   Downloaded




diabetesjournals.org/care

Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management S235

Failure decreased by 36% (42,274). As of study participants had a prior history of CKD, are likely to see a larger absolute risk reduction than healthier individuals at relatively lower cardiovascular and kidney risk.

# Finerenone

Finerenone is a nonsteroidal MRA and has recently been studied in people with diabetes and CKD, including the Finerenone in Reducing Kidney Failure and Disease Progression in Diabetic Kidney Disease (FIDELIO-DKD) and the Efficacy and Safety of Finerenone in Subjects With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus and the Clinical Diagnosis of Diabetic Kidney Disease (FIGARO-DKD) studies. In FIDELIO-DKD, finerenone was compared with placebo for the primary outcome of kidney failure, a sustained decrease of at least 40% in the eGFR from baseline, or death from renal causes in people with type 2 diabetes and CKD (285). A prespecified secondary outcome was death from cardiovascular causes, nonfatal MI, nonfatal stroke, or hospitalization for heart failure, which was reduced by 13% in the finerenone group. The incidence of heart failure hospitalization occurred less in the finerenone-treated group, and only 7.7% of study participants had a prior history of heart failure. In the FIGARO-DKD trial, finerenone reduced the primary outcome of death from cardiovascular causes, nonfatal MI, nonfatal stroke, or hospitalization for heart failure (HR 0.87 [95% CI 0.76–0.98]; P = 0.03) in people with type 2 diabetes and CKD (240). Only 7.8% of all participants had a prior history of heart failure, and the incidence of hospitalization for heart failure was reduced in the finerenone-allocated treatment arm (HR 0.71 [95% CI 0.56–0.90]). Owing to these observations, treatment with finerenone is recommended in people with type 2 diabetes and CKD to reduce the risk of progression from stage A heart failure to symptomatic incident heart failure.

# Treatment of Symptomatic Heart Failure

In general, current guideline-directed medical therapy for a history of MI and symptomatic stage C and D heart failure in people with diabetes is similar to that for people without diabetes. At these symptomatic stages of heart failure, a collaborative approach with a cardiovascular specialist is recommended. The treatment recommendations are detailed in current 2022 American Heart Association/American College of Cardiology/Heart Failure.

January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf from Downloaded



S236  Cardiovascular Disease and  Risk  Management     Diabetes Care Volume  49,  Supplement  1,  January  2026

# SGLT Inhibitors

The SGLT2 inhibitors empagliflozin, canagliflozin, and dapagliflozin reduce the incidence of heart failure and improve heart failure–related outcomes, including hospitalization for heart failure and heart failure–related symptoms, in people with diabetes with preserved or reduced ejection fraction (242,247,248,281,286–294). The results of these clinical trials have been extensively outlined in the 2024 ADA “Standards of Care in Diabetes” (295). These results led to trials of empagliflozin and dapagliflozin in individuals with symptomatic heart failure (both HFrEF and HFpEF), often in populations with and without diabetes.

The DAPA-HF trial specifically evaluated the effects of dapagliflozin 10 mg daily on the primary outcome of a composite of worsening heart failure or cardiovascular death in individuals with New York Heart Association (NYHA) class II, III, or IV heart failure and an ejection fraction of 40% or less (287). Dapagliflozin treatment had a lower risk of the primary outcome (HR 0.74 [95% CI 0.65–0.85]), lower risk of first worsening heart failure event (HR 0.70 [95% CI 0.59–0.83]), and lower risk of cardiovascular death (HR 0.82 [95% CI 0.69–0.98]) compared with placebo. The effect of dapagliflozin on the primary outcome was consistent regardless of the presence or absence of type 2 diabetes (287). Similar results were obtained in clinical trials with empagliflozin (291). In Empagliflozin Outcome Trial in Patients With Chronic Heart Failure With Preserved Ejection Fraction (EMPEROR-Preserved), the primary outcome of cardiovascular death or hospitalization for heart failure was reduced in adults with NYHA functional class I–IV and chronic HFpEF (LVEF >40%), extending the previously seen benefit in people with heart failure to those with preserved ejection fraction irrespective of the presence of type 2 diabetes (242). A similar benefit for heart failure outcomes was seen in the Dapagliflozin Evaluation to Improve the Lives of Patients with Preserved Ejection Fraction Heart Failure (DELIVER) trial for dapagliflozin in people with mildly reduced or preserved ejection fraction (290).

# Mineralocorticoid Receptor Antagonists

Consistent with heart failure guidelines, an MRA like spironolactone or eplerenone is recommended in people with HFrEF (ejection fraction ≤40%) and type 2 diabetes (12,13). The selective nonsteroidal MRA finerenone was examined in the Study to Evaluate the Efficacy (Effect on Disease) and Safety of Finerenone in Participants With Heart Failure and Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction (Proportion of Blood Expelled Per Heart Stroke) Greater or Equal to 40% (FINEARTS-HF) trial of people with symptomatic HFpEF (ejection fraction ≥40%) and was found to reduce the risk of total number of worsening heart failure events or cardiovascular death by 16% (rate ratio 0.84, 95% CI 0.74–0.95) (303). Of the enrolled participants, 41% had type 2 diabetes. Thus, finerenone improves cardiovascular and kidney outcomes in people with type 2 diabetes. Addition of finerenone can be considered to improve heart failure outcomes in individuals with symptomatic HFpEF. In people with type 2 diabetes and CKD with albuminuria treated with maximum tolerated doses of ACE inhibitor or ARB, the addition of finerenone should be considered to improve cardiovascular outcomes, including the risk for heart failure hospitalization, and to reduce the risk of CKD progression.

# GLP-1 RA and Dual GIP/GLP-1 RA

Increasing evidence has demonstrated the benefits of GLP-1 RA or dual GIP/GLP-1 RA on symptoms and outcomes for people with HFpEF and obesity, and while most people with HFpEF have obesity, approximately 45% have diabetes (304,305). The Semaglutide Treatment Effect in People with Obesity and HFpEF and Diabetes Mellitus (STEP-HFpEF DM) trial evaluated whether the GLP-1 RA semaglutide...

2026  January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf Downloaded



diabetesjournals.org/care
# Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management

# Prevention of ASCVD in people with type 2 diabetes

# Nutrition and lifestyle

# BP management

| oespthepindividuÅlphÅvepestÅblishedpLX“é”R | Yes                                | No                                    |                                 |        |   |
| ------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------- | ------------------------------------- | ------------------------------- | ------ | - |
| ;ighFintensitypstÅtin                      | x                                  | %spthepindividuÅlpÅtphighpLX“é”priskR |                                 |        | 6 |
| XflWYxi                                    | Yes                                | No                                    |                                 |        |   |
|                                            | ”oespthepindividuÅlphÅvepLX“é”pinp | ÅtpleÅstptwopvÅsculÅrpbedsfiporponep  |                                 |        |   |
|                                            |                                    | ;ighFintensitypstÅtin.                | \[oderÅteFporphighFintensityp   | stÅtin |   |
| XflWYxi                                    | x                                  | Yes                                   | No                              |        |   |
|                                            | “onsiderpÅspirinp0TpmgpdÅilypL]”p  | rivÅroxÅbÅnpx34pmgptwicepdÅilyp       | inpindividuÅlspwhopdopnotpneedp |        |   |
| Lspirinp0TpmgponcepdÅilyp=’p               | systemicpÅnticoÅgulÅtionporpduÅlp  | clopidogrelpJ4pmgponcepdÅily          |                                 |        |   |
|                                            | ÅntiplÅteletptherÅpypÅndpdopnotp   | hÅvepÅnotherpcontrÅindicÅtion         | U                               |        |   |

1. ASCVD is defined as a history of an acute coronary syndrome or myocardial infarction, angina, coronary heart disease with or without revascularization, other arterial revascularization, stroke, or peripheral artery disease assumed to be atherosclerotic in origin.
2. Non-statins with demonstrated benefit should be considered in those with statin intolerance.
3. Consider low-dose rivaroxaban in people with atherosclerotic disease in at least two vascular beds, or in one bed and are older than 65 years, who do NOT have an anticoagulation.
4. Individuals at high risk for ASCVD include those with end-organ damage such as left ventricular hypertrophy or retinopathy or with multiple CV risk factors (e.g., older age, hypertension, smoking, dyslipidemia, CKD, and obesity).

Figure 10.6—Approach to prevent ASCVD in people with type 2 diabetes. ASCVD, atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease; BP, blood pressure; CKD, chronic kidney disease; CV, cardiovascular; GLP-1 RA, glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonist; LVEF, left ventricle ejection fraction; SGLT2i, sodium–glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitor.

improves symptoms related to heart failure in people with type 2 diabetes (306). In the study, 616 people with type 2 diabetes and a BMI of 30 or greater with HFpEF were assigned to receive once-weekly semaglutide at a dose of 2.4 mg or placebo. The primary end point was the change in the Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire clinical summary score (KCCQ-CSS) (range from 0 to 100) and the change in weight. After 1 year of treatment, the mean change in the score was 13.7 points with semaglutide and 6.4 points with placebo, and the mean body weight was reduced by 9.8% in the group assigned to semaglutide compared with 3.4% with placebo. In addition, in the confirmatory secondary end point, semaglutide treatment improved 6-min walk distance.

SUMMIT [A Study of Tirzepatide (LY3298176) in Participants With Heart Failure With Preserved Ejection Fraction (HFpEF) and Obesity] was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of tirzepatide, a dual GIP and GLP-1 RA, in individuals with established HFpEF and obesity (48% with diabetes). The coprimary outcomes were death from cardiovascular causes or a worsening heart failure event and a change in the KCCQ-CSS. Worsening heart failure or cardiovascular death was less frequent in individuals receiving tirzepatide (9.9% of individuals) versus placebo (15.3% of individuals; HR 0.62, 95% CI 0.41–0.95). In addition, the mean KCCQ-CSS improved significantly more in those on active tirzepatide (19.5) than in the placebo group (12.7) (307). Because of the results of these trials, treatment with a GLP-1 RA or GIP/GLP-1 RA for a reduction in heart failure events and heart failure symptoms in people with symptoms of heart failure is recommended.

# Other Glucose-Lowering Therapies in Heart Failure

Thiazolidinediones have a strong and consistent relationship with increased risk of heart failure (308,309) and should be avoided in people with heart failure. Metformin may be used for the management of hyperglycemia in people with stable heart failure as long as kidney function remains within the recommended range for use (310). DPP-4 inhibitors are generally considered safe to use in heart failure, though in The Saxagliptin Assessment of Vascular Outcomes Recorded in Patients with Diabetes Mellitus–Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction 53 (SAVOR-TIMI 53).

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf from Downloaded




# Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management

Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

# Clinical Approach

As has been carefully outlined in Fig. 9.4 in section 9, “Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment,” people with type 2 diabetes with or at high risk for ASCVD, heart failure, or CKD should be treated with a cardioprotective SGLT inhibitor and/or GLP-1 RA as part of the comprehensive approach to cardiovascular and kidney risk reduction. Importantly, these agents should be included in the plan of care irrespective of the need for additional glucose lowering and irrespective of metformin use. Figure 10.6 outlines the approach to risk reduction with SGLT2 inhibitor and GLP-1 RA therapy in conjunction with other traditional, guideline-based preventive medical therapies for blood pressure, lipids, and glycemia and antiplatelet therapy.

Adoption of these agents should be reasonably straightforward in people with type 2 diabetes and established cardiovascular or kidney disease. Incorporation of SGLT2 inhibitor or GLP-1 RA therapy in the care of individuals with diabetes may need to replace some or all of their existing medications to minimize risks of hypoglycemia and adverse side effects and potentially to minimize medication costs. Close collaboration between primary and specialty care professionals and other members of the health care team (advanced practice professionals, pharmacists, nutritionists, and others) can help facilitate these transitions in clinical care and, in turn, improve outcomes for people with type 2 diabetes who are at high risk for ASCVD, heart failure, or CKD.

# References

1. Weng W, Tian Y, Kong SX, et al. The prevalence of cardiovascular disease and antidiabetes treatment characteristics among a large type 2 diabetes population in the United States. Endocrinol Diabetes Metab 2019;2:e00076
2. Gæde P, Oellgaard J, Carstensen B, et al. Years of life gained by multifactorial intervention in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and microalbuminuria: 21 years follow-up on the Steno-2 randomised trial. Diabetologia 2016;59:2298–2307
3. Gaede P, Lund-Andersen H, Parving H-H, Pedersen O. Effect of a multifactorial intervention on mortality in type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2008;358:580–591
4. Khunti K, Kosiborod M, Ray KK. Legacy benefits of blood glucose, blood pressure and lipid control in individuals with diabetes and cardiovascular disease: time to overcome multifactorial therapeutic inertia? Diabetes Obes Metab 2018;20:1337–1341
5. Rawshani A, Rawshani A, Franzén S, et al. Risk factors, mortality, and cardiovascular outcomes in patients with type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2018;379:633–644
6. Mohebi R, Chen C, Ibrahim NE, et al. Cardiovascular disease projections in the United States Based on the 2020 Census estimates. J Am Coll Cardiol 2022;80:565–578
7. Kazemian P, Shebl FM, McCann N, Walensky RP, Wexler DJ. Evaluation of the cascade of diabetes care in the United States, 2005-2016. JAMA Intern Med 2019;179:1376–1385
8. Nelson AJ, O’Brien EC, Kaltenbach LA, et al. Use of lipid-, blood pressure-, and glucose-lowering pharmacotherapy in patients with type 2 diabetes and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. JAMA Netw Open 2022;5:e2148030
9. Gregg EW, Cheng YJ, Srinivasan M, et al. Trends in cause-specific mortality among adults with and without diagnosed diabetes in the USA: an epidemiological analysis of linked national survey and vital statistics data. Lancet 2018;391:2430–2440
10. Kodama S, Fujihara K, Horikawa C, et al. Diabetes mellitus and risk of new-onset and recurrent heart failure: a systematic review and meta-analysis. ESC Heart Fail 2020;7:2146–2174
11. Maddox TM, Januzzi JL, Jr, Allen LA, et al. 2024 ACC expert consensus decision pathway for treatment of heart failure with reduced ejection fraction: a report of the American College of Cardiology Solution Set Oversight Committee. J Am Coll Cardiol 83:1444–1488
12. Kittleson MM, Panjrath GS, Amancherla K, et al. 2023 ACC expert consensus decision pathway on management of heart failure with preserved ejection fraction. J Am Coll Cardiol 2023;81:1835–1878
13. Redfield MM, Borlaug BA. Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction: a review. JAMA 2023;329:827–838
14. Marwick TH, Ritchie R, Shaw JE, Kaye D. Implications of underlying mechanisms for the recognition and management of diabetic cardio-myopathy. J Am Coll Cardiol 2018;71:339–351
15. Pop-Busui R, Januzzi JL, Bruemmer D, et al. Heart failure: an underappreciated complication of diabetes. A consensus report of the American Diabetes Association. Diabetes Care 2022;45:1670–1690
16. Arnett DK, Blumenthal RS, Albert MA, et al. 2019 ACC/AHA guideline on the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Circulation 2019;140:e596–e646
17. Jones DW, Ferdinand KC, Taler SJ, et al. 2025 AHA/ACC/AANP/AAPA/ABC/ACCP/ACPM/AGS/AMA/ASPC/NMA/PCNA/SGIM guideline for the prevention, detection, evaluation and management of high blood pressure in adults: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Joint Committee on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Circulation 2025;152:e114–e218
18. de Boer IH, Bangalore S, Benetos A, et al. Diabetes and hypertension: a position statement by the American Diabetes Association. Diabetes Care 2017;40:1273–1284
19. Unger T, Borghi C, Charchar F, et al. 2020 International Society of Hypertension global hypertension practice guidelines. Hypertension 2020;75:1334–1357
20. Whelton PK, Carey RM, Mancia G, Kreutz R, Bundy JD, Williams B. Harmonization of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association and European Society of Cardiology/European Society of Hypertension Blood Pressure/Hypertension Guidelines. Eur Heart J 2022;43:3302–3311
21. Mancia G, Kreutz R, Brunstrom M, et al. 2023 ESH guidelines for the management of arterial hypertension. The Task Force for the management of arterial hypertension of the European Society of Hypertension: endorsed by the International Society of Hypertension (ISH) and the European Renal Association (ERA). J Hypertens 2023;41:1874–2071

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf from Downloaded





diabetesjournals.org/care
# Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management

Guidelines for the management of arterial hypertension. Eur Heart J 2018;39:3021–3104

1. Bakris GL, Weir MR; Study of Hypertension and the Efficacy of Lotrel in Diabetes (SHIELD) Investigators. Achieving goal blood pressure in patients with type 2 diabetes: conventional versus fixed-dose combination approaches. J Clin Hypertens (Greenwich) 2003;5:202–209
2. Ishigami J, Charleston J, Miller ER, Matsushita K, Appel LJ, Brady TM. Effects of cuff size on the accuracy of blood pressure readings: the Cuff(SZ) randomized crossover trial. JAMA Intern Med 2023;183:1061–1068
3. Bobrie G, Genes N, Vaur L, et al. Is “isolated home” hypertension as opposed to “isolated office” hypertension a sign of greater cardiovascular risk? Arch Intern Med 2001;161:2205–2211
4. Sega R, Facchetti R, Bombelli M, et al. Prognostic value of ambulatory and home blood pressures compared with office blood pressure in the general population: follow-up results from the Pressioni Arteriose Monitorate e Loro Associazioni (PAMELA) study. Circulation 2005;111:1777–1783
5. Panagiotakos D, Antza C, Kotsis V. Ambulatory and home blood pressure monitoring for cardiovascular disease risk evaluation: a systematic review and meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies. J Hypertens 2024;42:1–9
6. Omboni S, Gazzola T, Carabelli G, Parati G. Clinical usefulness and cost effectiveness of home blood pressure telemonitoring: meta-analysis of randomized controlled studies. J Hypertens 2013;31:455–467
7. Emdin CA, Rahimi K, Neal B, Callender T, Perkovic V, Patel A. Blood pressure lowering in type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. JAMA 2015;313:603–615
8. Arguedas JA, Leiva V, Wright JM. Blood pressure targets for hypertension in people with diabetes mellitus. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2013;2013:CD008277
9. Ettehad D, Emdin CA, Kiran A, et al. Blood pressure lowering for prevention of cardiovascular disease and death: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Lancet 2016;387:957–967
10. Brunstrom M, Carlberg B. Effect of antihypertensive treatment at different blood pressure levels in patients with diabetes mellitus: systematic review and meta-analyses. BMJ 2016;352:i717
11. Bangalore S, Kumar S, Lobach I, Messerli FH. Blood pressure targets in subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus/impaired fasting glucose: observations from traditional and Bayesian random-effects meta-analyses of randomized trials. Circulation 2011;123:2799–2810
12. Thomopoulos C, Parati G, Zanchetti A. Effects of blood-pressure-lowering treatment on outcome incidence in hypertension: 10 - Should blood pressure management differ in hypertensive patients with and without diabetes mellitus? Overview and meta-analyses of randomized trials. J Hypertens 2017;35:922–944
13. Xie X, Atkins E, Lv J, et al. Effects of intensive blood pressure lowering on cardiovascular and renal outcomes: updated systematic review and meta-analysis. Lancet 2016;387:435–443
14. Zhang W, Zhang S, Deng Y, et al.; STEP Study Group. Trial of intensive blood-pressure control in older patients with hypertension. N Engl J Med 2021;385:1268–1279
15. Bi Y, Li M, Liu Y, et al.; BPROAD Research Group. Intensive blood-pressure control in patients with type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2025;392:1155–1167
16. Liu J, Li Y, Ge J, et al.; ESPRIT Collaborative Group. Lowering systolic blood pressure to less than 120 mm Hg versus less than 140 mm Hg in patients with diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Can J Cardiol 2020;36:764–774

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf from Downloaded






# Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management

# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

discontinuation and all-cause mortality among persons with low estimated glomerular filtration rate. JAMA Intern Med 2020;180:718–726

69. Reinhart M, Puil L, Salzwedel DM, Wright JM. First-line diuretics versus other classes of anti-hypertensive drugs for hypertension. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2023;7:CD008161

70. Carlberg B, Samuelsson O, Lindholm LH. Atenolol in hypertension: is it a wise choice? Lancet 2004;364:1684–1689

71. Murphy SP, Ibrahim NE, Januzzi JL, Jr. Heart failure with reduced ejection fraction: a review. JAMA 2020;324:488–504

72. Garovic VD, Dechend R, Easterling T, et al.; American Heart Association Council on Hypertension; Council on the Kidney in Cardiovascular Disease, Kidney in Heart Disease Science Committee; Council on Arteriosclerosis, Thrombosis and Vascular Biology; Council on Lifestyle and Cardiometabolic Health; Council on Peripheral Vascular Disease; and Stroke Council. Hypertension in pregnancy: diagnosis, blood pressure goals, and pharmacotherapy: a scientific statement from the American Heart Association. Hypertension 2022;79:e21–e41

73. Irgens HU, Reisaeter L, Irgens LM, Lie RT. Long term mortality of mothers and fathers after pre-eclampsia: population based cohort study. BMJ 2001;323:1213–1217

74. Yusuf S, Teo KK, Pogue J, et al.; ONTARGET Investigators. Telmisartan, ramipril, or both in patients at high risk for vascular events. N Engl J Med 2008;358:1547–1559

75. Fried LF, Emanuele N, Zhang JH, et al.; VA NEPHRON-D Investigators. Combined angiotensin inhibition for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy. N Engl J Med 2013;369:1892–1903

76. Makani H, Bangalore S, Desouza KA, Shah A, Messerli FH. Efficacy and safety of dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin system: meta-analysis of randomised trials. BMJ 2013;346:f360

77. Nilsson E, Gasparini A, Arnlov J, et al. Incidence and determinants of hypokalemia in a large healthcare system. Int J Cardiol 2017;245:277–284

78. Bandak G, Sang Y, Gasparini A, et al. Hyperkalemia after initiating renin-angiotensin system blockade: the Stockholm Creatinine Measurements (SCREAM) project. J Am Heart Assoc 2017;6:e005428

79. Bakris GL, Weir MR. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor-associated elevations in serum creatinine: is this a cause for concern? Arch Intern Med 2000;160:685–693

80. Ostermann M, Bellomo R, Burdmann EA, et al.; Conference Participants. Controversies in acute kidney injury: conclusions from a Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) Conference. Kidney Int 2020;98:294–309

81. James MT, Grams ME, Woodward M, et al.; CKD Prognosis Consortium. A meta-analysis of the association of estimated GFR, albuminuria, diabetes mellitus, and hypertension with acute kidney injury. Am J Kidney Dis 2015;66:602–612

82. Williams B, MacDonald TM, Morant S, et al.; British Hypertension Society’s PATHWAY Studies Group. Spironolactone versus placebo, bisoprolol, and doxazosin to determine the optimal treatment for drug-resistant hypertension (PATHWAY-2): a randomised, double-blind, crossover trial. Lancet 2015;386:2059–2068

83. Sato A, Hayashi K, Naruse M, Saruta T. Effectiveness of aldosterone blockade in patients with diabetic nephropathy. J Am Soc Nephrol 2009;20:2641–2650

84. Mehdi UF, Adams-Huet B, Raskin P, Vega GL, Toto RD. Addition of angiotensin receptor blockade or mineralocorticoid antagonism to maximal angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition in diabetic nephropathy. J Am Soc Nephrol 2009;20:2641–2650

85. Bakris GL, Agarwal R, Chan JC, et al.; Mineralocorticoid Receptor Antagonist Tolerability Study–Diabetic Nephropathy (ARTS-DN) Study Group. Effect of finerenone on albuminuria in patients with diabetic nephropathy: a randomized clinical trial. JAMA 2015;314:884–894

86. Virani SS, Newby LK, Arnold SV, et al. 2023 AHA/ACC/ACCP/ASPC/NLA/PCNA guideline for the management of patients with chronic coronary disease: a report of the American Heart Association/American College of Cardiology Joint Committee on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Circulation 2023;148:e9–e119

87. Estruch R, Ros E, Salas-Salvadó J, et al.; PREDIMED Study Investigators. Primary prevention of cardiovascular disease with a mediterranean diet supplemented with extra-virgin olive oil or nuts. N Engl J Med 2018;378:e34

88. Jia X, Al Rifai M, Ramsey DJ, et al. Association between lipid testing and statin adherence in the Veterans Affairs health system. Am J Med 2019;132:e693–e700

89. Rana JS, Virani SS, Moffet HH, et al. Association of low-density lipoprotein testing after an atherosclerotic cardiovascular event with subsequent statin adherence and intensification. Am J Med 2022;135:603–606

90. Tran C, Vo V, Taylor P, Koehn DA, Virani SS, Dixon DL. Adherence to lipid monitoring and its impact on treat intensification of LDL-C lowering therapies at an urban academic medical center. J Clin Lipidol 2022;16:491–497

91. Meek C, Wierzbicki AS, Jewkes C, et al. Daily and intermittent rosuvastatin 5 mg therapy in statin intolerant patients: an observational study. Curr Med Res Opin 2012;28:371–378

92. Fulcher J, O’Connell R, Voysey M, et al. Efficacy and safety of LDL-lowering therapy among men and women: meta-analysis of individual data from 174,000 participants in 27 randomised trials. Lancet 2015;385:1397–1405

93. Mihaylova B, Emberson J, Blackwell L, et al. The effects of lowering LDL cholesterol with statin therapy in people at low risk of vascular disease: meta-analysis of individual data from 27 randomised trials. Lancet 2012;380:581–590

94. O, Pyorala K, Pedersen TR, Kjekshus J, Faergeman Olsson AG, Thorgeirsson G. Cholesterol lowering with simvastatin improves prognosis of diabetic patients with coronary heart disease. A subgroup analysis of the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S). Diabetes Care 1997;20:614–620

95. Collins R, Armitage J, Parish S, Sleigh P, Peto R; Heart Protection Study Collaborative Group. MRC/BHF Heart Protection Study of cholesterol-lowering with simvastatin in 5963 people with diabetes: a randomised placebo-controlled trial. Lancet 2003;361:2005–2016

96. Goldberg RB, Mellies MJ, Sacks FM, et al. Cardiovascular events and their reduction with pravastatin in diabetic and glucose-intolerant myocardial infarction survivors with average cholesterol levels: subgroup analyses in the 2018 AHA/ACC/AACVPR/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/ADA/AGS/APhA/ASPC/NLA/PCNA guidelines on the management of blood cholesterol in diabetes. Diabetes Care 2020;43:1673–1678

97. Shepherd J, Barter P, Carmena R, et al. Effect of lowering LDL cholesterol substantially below currently recommended levels in patients with coronary heart disease and diabetes: the Treating to New Targets (TNT) study. Diabetes Care 2006;29:1220–1226

98. Sever PS, Poulter NR, Dahlof B, et al. Reduction in cardiovascular events with atorvastatin in 2,532 patients with type 2 diabetes: Anglo-Scandinavian Cardiac Outcomes Trial–lipid-lowering arm (ASCOT-LLA). Diabetes Care 2005;28:1151–1157

99. Knopp RH, d’Emden M, Smilde JG, Pocock SJ. Efficacy and safety of atorvastatin in the prevention of cardiovascular end points in subjects with type 2 diabetes: the Atorvastatin Study for Prevention of Coronary Heart Disease Endpoints in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (ASPEN). Diabetes Care 2006;29:1478–1485

100. Colhoun HM, Betteridge DJ, Durrington PN, et al.; CARDS investigators. Primary prevention of cardiovascular disease with atorvastatin in type 2 diabetes in the Collaborative Atorvastatin Diabetes Study (CARDS): multicentre randomised placebo-controlled trial. Lancet 2004;364:685–696

101. Kearney PM, Blackwell L, Collins R, et al.; Cholesterol Treatment Trialists’ (CTT) Collaborators. Efficacy of cholesterol-lowering therapy in 18,686 people with diabetes in 14 randomised trials of statins: a meta-analysis. Lancet 2008;371:117–125

102. Taylor F, Huffman MD, Macedo AF, et al. Statins for the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2013;2013:CD004816

103. Carter AA, Gomes T, Camacho X, Juurlink DN, Shah BR, Mamdani MM. Risk of incident diabetes among patients treated with statins: population based study. BMJ 2013;346:f2610

104. Baigent C, Keech A, Kearney PM, et al.; Cholesterol Treatment Trialists’ (CTT) Collaborators. Efficacy and safety of cholesterol-lowering treatment: prospective meta-analysis of data from 90,056 participants in 14 randomised trials of statins. Lancet 2005;366:1267–1278

105. Mangione CM, Barry MJ, Nicholson WK, et al.; US Preventive Services Task Force. Statin use for the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease in adults: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. JAMA 2022;328:746–753

106. Grundy SM, Stone NJ, Bailey AL, et al. AHA/ACC/AACVPR/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/ADA/AGS/APhA/ASPC/NLA/PCNA guideline on the management of blood cholesterol: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Circulation 2018;139:e1082–e1143

107. Jellinger PS, Handelsman Y, Rosenblit PD, et al. American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists and American College of Endocrinology guidelines for management of dyslipidemia and prevention of cardiovascular disease. Endocr Pract 2017;23:1–87

108. Goldberg RB, Stone NJ, Grundy SM. The 2018 AHA/ACC/AACVPR/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/ADA/AGS/APhA/ASPC/NLA/PCNA guidelines on the management of blood cholesterol in diabetes. Diabetes Care 2020;43:1673–1678

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf from Downloaded





diabetesjournals.org/care
Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management S241

lipid modification to reduce cardiovascular risk. reduction of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol.

|      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | 134.                                                                                                                                 | De Filippo O, D’Ascenzo F, Iannaccone M, et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Eur Heart J 2020;41:111–188                                                                                       |                                 |
| ---- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| 110. | Grundy SM, Stone NJ, Bailey AL, et al. 2018 AHA/ACC/AACVPR/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/ADA/AGS/APhA/ASPC/NLA/PCNA guideline on the management of blood cholesterol: executive summary.                                                                                                                                                                                                             | J Am Coll Cardiol 2019;73:3168–3209                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                   |                                 |
| 111. | Khan SU, Yedlapati SH, Lone AN, et al. PCSK9 inhibitors and ezetimibe with or without statin therapy for cardiovascular risk reduction: a systematic review and network meta-analysis.                                                                                                                                                                                               | BMJ 2022;377:e069116                                 |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                   |                                 |
| 112. | Cannon CP, Blazing MA, Giugliano RP, et al.; IMPROVE-IT Investigators. Ezetimibe added to statin therapy after acute coronary syndromes.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | N Engl J Med 2015;372:2387–2397                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                   |                                 |
| 113. | de Ferranti SD, de Boer IH, Fonseca V, et al. Type 1 diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular disease: a scientific statement from the American Heart Association and American Diabetes Association.                                                                                                                                                                                     | Diabetes Care 2014;37:2843–2863                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                   |                                 |
| 114. | Kang YM, Giugliano RP, Ran X, et al. Cardiovascular outcomes and efficacy of the PCSK9 inhibitor evolocumab in individuals with type 1 diabetes: insights from the FOURIER trial.                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Diabetes Care 2025;48:1512–1516                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                   |                                 |
| 115. | Sabatine MS, Giugliano RP, Keech AC, et al.; FOURIER Steering Committee and Investigators. Evolocumab and clinical outcomes in patients with cardiovascular disease.                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | N Engl J Med 2017;376:1713–1722                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                   |                                 |
| 116. | Giugliano RP, Cannon CP, Blazing MA, et al.; IMPROVE-IT (Improved Reduction of Outcomes: Vytorin Efficacy International Trial) Investigators. Benefit of adding ezetimibe to statin therapy on cardiovascular outcomes and safety in patients with versus without diabetes mellitus: results from IMPROVE-IT (Improved Reduction of Outcomes: Vytorin Efficacy International Trial). | Circulation 2018;137:1571–1582                       |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                   |                                 |
| 117. | Schwartz GG, Steg PG, Szarek M, et al.; ODYSSEY OUTCOMES Committees and Investigators. Alirocumab and cardiovascular outcomes after acute coronary syndrome.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | N Engl J Med 2018;379:2097–2107                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                   |                                 |
| 118. | Ray KK, Colhoun HM, Szarek M, et al.; ODYSSEY OUTCOMES Committees and Investigators. Effects of alirocumab on cardiovascular and metabolic outcomes after acute coronary syndrome in patients with or without diabetes: a prespecified analysis of the ODYSSEY OUTCOMES randomised controlled trial.                                                                                 | Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2019;7:618–628            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                   |                                 |
| 119. | Sabatine MS, Leiter LA, Wiviott SD, et al. Cardiovascular safety and efficacy of the PCSK9 inhibitor evolocumab in patients with and without diabetes and the effect of evolocumab on glycaemia and risk of new-onset diabetes: a prespecified analysis of the FOURIER randomised controlled trial.                                                                                  | Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2017;5:941–950            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                   |                                 |
| 120. | Moriarty PM, Jacobson TA, Bruckert E, et al. Efficacy and safety of alirocumab, a monoclonal antibody to PCSK9, in statin-intolerant patients: design and rationale of ODYSSEY ALTERNATIVE, a randomized phase 3 trial.                                                                                                                                                              | J Clin Lipidol 2014;8:554–561                        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                   |                                 |
| 121. | Toth PP, Bray S, Villa G, et al. Network meta-analysis of randomized trials evaluating the comparative efficacy of lipid-lowering therapies added to maximally tolerated statins for the reduction of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol.                                                                                                                                           | 134. De Filippo O, D’Ascenzo F, Iannaccone M, et al. |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                   |                                 |
|      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 122.                                                 | Giugliano RP, Pedersen TR, Saver JL, et al.; FOURIER Investigators. Stroke prevention with the PCSK9 (proprotein convertase subtilisin-kexin type 9) inhibitor evolocumab added to statin in high-risk patients with stable atherosclerosis.     | Stroke 2020;51:1546–1554                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                   |                                 |
|      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 123.                                                 | Ray KK, Wright RS, Kallend D, et al.; ORION-10 and ORION-11 Investigators. Two phase 3 trials of inclisiran in patients with elevated LDL cholesterol.                                                                                           | N Engl J Med 2020;382:1507–1519                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                   |                                 |
|      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 124.                                                 | University of Oxford. ClinicalTrials.gov. In: Randomized Trial Assessing the Effects of Inclisiran On Clinical Outcomes Among People With Cardiovascular Disease (ORION-4).                                                                      | Bethesda, MD, National Library of Medicine. Accessed 19 August 2025. Available from https\://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03705234 |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                   |                                 |
|      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 125.                                                 | National Library of Medicine. National Center for Biotechnology Information. ClinicalTrials.gov. Study of Inclisiran to Prevent Cardiovascular (CV) Events in Participants With Established Cardiovascular Disease (VICTORION-2P) (NCT05030428). | Accessed 19 August 2025. Available from https\://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05030428                                                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                   |                                 |
|      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 126.                                                 | National Library of Medicine. National Center for Biotechnology Information. ClinicalTrials.gov. A Study of Inclisiran to Prevent Cardiovascular Events in High-Risk Primary Prevention Patients (NCT05739383).                                  | Accessed 19 August 2025. Available from https\://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05739383                                                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                   |                                 |
|      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 127.                                                 | Cheeley MK, Saseen JJ, Agarwala A, et al. NLA scientific statement on statin intolerance: a new definition and key considerations for ASCVD risk reduction in the statin intolerant patient.                                                     | J Clin Lipidol 2022;16:361–375                                                                                                       |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                   |                                 |
|      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 128.                                                 | Moriarty PM, Thompson PD, Cannon CP, et al.; ODYSSEY ALTERNATIVE Investigators. Efficacy and safety of alirocumab vs ezetimibe in statin-intolerant patients, with a statin rechallenge arm: the ODYSSEY ALTERNATIVE randomized trial.           | J Clin Lipidol 2015;9:758–769                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                   |                                 |
|      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 129.                                                 | Sullivan D, Olsson AG, Scott R, et al. Effect of a monoclonal antibody to PCSK9 on low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels in statin-intolerant patients: the GAUSS randomized trial.                                                         | JAMA 2012;308:2497–2506                                                                                                              |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                   |                                 |
|      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 130.                                                 | Stroes E, Colquhoun D, Sullivan D, et al.; GAUSS-2 Investigators. Anti-PCSK9 antibody effectively lowers cholesterol in patients with statin intolerance: the GAUSS-2 randomized, placebo-controlled phase 3 clinical trial of evolocumab.       | J Am Coll Cardiol 2014;63:2541–2548                                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                   |                                 |
|      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 131.                                                 | Nissen SE, Stroes E, Dent-Acosta RE, et al.; GAUSS-3 Investigators. Efficacy and tolerability of evolocumab vs ezetimibe in patients with muscle-related statin intolerance: the GAUSS-3 randomized clinical trial.                              | JAMA 2016;315:1580–1590                                                                                                              |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                   |                                 |
|      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 132.                                                 | Ray KK, Stoekenbroek RM, Kallend D, et al. Effect of 1 or 2 doses of inclisiran on low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels: one-year follow-up of the ORION-1 randomized clinical trial.                                                      | JAMA Cardiol 2019;4:1067–1075                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                   |                                 |
|      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 133.                                                 | Ray KK, Troquay RPT, Visseren FLJ, et al. Long-term efficacy and safety of inclisiran in patients with high cardiovascular risk and elevated LDL cholesterol (ORION-3): results from the 4-year open-label extension of the ORION-1 trial.       | Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2023;11:109–119                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                   |                                 |
|      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | 134.                                                                                                                                 | De Filippo O, D’Ascenzo F, Iannaccone M, et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | al. Safety and efficacy of bempedoic acid: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials. | Cardiovasc Diabetol 2023;22:324 |
|      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | 135.                                                                                                                                 | Nissen SE, Lincoff AM, Brennan D, et al.; CLEAR Outcomes Investigators. Bempedoic acid and cardiovascular outcomes in statin-intolerant patients.                                                                                                                                    | N Engl J Med 2023;388:1353–1364                                                                                   |                                 |
|      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | 136.                                                                                                                                 | Ray KK, Nicholls SJ, Li N, et al.; CLEAR OUTCOMES Committees and Investigators. Efficacy and safety of bempedoic acid among patients with and without diabetes: prespecified analysis of the CLEAR Outcomes randomised trial.                                                        | Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2024;12:19–28                                                                          |                                 |
|      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | 137.                                                                                                                                 | Nissen SE, Menon V, Nicholls SJ, et al. Bempedoic acid for primary prevention of cardiovascular events in statin-intolerant patients.                                                                                                                                                | JAMA 2023;330:131–140                                                                                             |                                 |
|      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | 138.                                                                                                                                 | Agarwala A, Dixon DL, Gianos E, et al. Dyslipidemia management in women of reproductive potential: an expert clinical consensus from the national lipid association.                                                                                                                 | J Clin Lipidol 2024;18:e664–e684                                                                                  |                                 |
|      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | 139.                                                                                                                                 | Roeters van Lennep JE, Tokgoz Badimon L, et al. Women, lipids, and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease: a call to action from the European Atherosclerosis Society.                                                                                                               | Eur Heart J 2023;44:4157–4173                                                                                     |                                 |
|      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | 140.                                                                                                                                 | Nanna MG, Wang TY, Xiang Q, et al. Sex differences in the use of statins in community practice.                                                                                                                                                                                      | Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes 2019;12:e005562                                                                     |                                 |
|      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | 141.                                                                                                                                 | Botha TC, Pilcher GJ, Wolmarans K, Blom DJ, Raal FJ. Statins and other lipid-lowering therapy and pregnancy outcomes in homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia: a retrospective review of 39 pregnancies.                                                                         | Atherosclerosis 2018;277:502–507                                                                                  |                                 |
|      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | 142.                                                                                                                                 | Toleikyte I, Retterstøl K, Leren TP, Iversen PO. Pregnancy outcomes in familial hypercholesterolemia: a registry-based study.                                                                                                                                                        | Circulation 2011;124:1606–1614                                                                                    |                                 |
|      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | 143.                                                                                                                                 | Mészáros B, Veres DS, Nagyistók L, et al. Pravastatin in preeclampsia: a meta-analysis and systematic review.                                                                                                                                                                        | Front Med (Lausanne) 2022;9:1076372                                                                               |                                 |
|      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | 144.                                                                                                                                 | Virani SS, Morris PB, Agarwala A, et al. 2021 ACC expert consensus decision pathway on the management of ASCVD risk reduction in patients with persistent hypertriglyceridemia: a report of the American College of Cardiology Solution Set Oversight Committee.                     | J Am Coll Cardiol 2021;78:960–993                                                                                 |                                 |
|      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | 145.                                                                                                                                 | Pedersen SB, Langsted A, Nordestgaard BG. Nonfasting mild-to-moderate hypertriglyceridemia and risk of acute pancreatitis.                                                                                                                                                           | JAMA Intern Med 2016;176:1834–1842                                                                                |                                 |
|      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | 146.                                                                                                                                 | Nelson AJ, Navar AM, Mulder H, et al. Association between triglycerides and residual cardiovascular risk in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and established cardiovascular disease (from the Bypass Angioplasty Revascularization Investigation 2 Diabetes \[BARI 2D] trial). | Am J Cardiol 2020;132:36–43                                                                                       |                                 |
|      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | 147.                                                                                                                                 | Bhatt DL, Steg PG, Miller M, et al.; REDUCE-IT Investigators. Cardiovascular risk reduction with icosapent ethyl for hypertriglyceridemia.                                                                                                                                           | N Engl J Med 2019;380:11–22                                                                                       |                                 |
|      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | 148.                                                                                                                                 | Nicholls SJ, Lincoff AM, Garcia M, et al. Effect of high-dose omega-3 fatty acids vs corn oil on major adverse cardiovascular events in patients at high cardiovascular risk.                                                                                                        | JAMA 2022;327:227–238                                                                                             |                                 |

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf from Downloaded




# Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management

# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

high cardiovascular risk: the STRENGTH randomized clinical trial. JAMA 2020;324:2268–2280

1. Singh IM, Shishehbor MH, Ansell BJ. High-density lipoprotein as a therapeutic target: a systematic review. JAMA 2007;298:786–798
2. Maki KC, Guyton JR, Orringer CE, Hamilton-Craig I, Alexander DD, Davidson MH. Triglyceride-lowering therapies reduce cardiovascular disease event risk in subjects with hypertriglyceridemia. J Clin Lipidol 2016;10:905–914
3. Das Pradhan A, Glynn RJ, Fruchart J-C, et al.; PROMINENT Investigators. Triglyceride lowering with pemafibrate to reduce cardiovascular risk. N Engl J Med 2022;387:1923–1934
4. Jones PH, Davidson MH. Reporting rate of rhabdomyolysis with fenofibrate + statin versus gemfibrozil + any statin. Am J Cardiol 2005;95:120–122
5. Ginsberg HN, Elam MB, Lovato LC, et al.; ACCORD Study Group. Effects of combination lipid therapy in type 2 diabetes mellitus. N Engl J Med 2010;362:1563–1574
6. Boden WE, Probstfield JL, Anderson T, et al.; AIM-HIGH Investigators. Niacin in patients with low HDL cholesterol levels receiving intensive statin therapy. N Engl J Med 2011;365:2255–2267
7. Landray MJ, Haynes R, Hopewell JC, et al.; HPS2-THRIVE Collaborative Group. Effects of extended-release niacin with laropiprant in high-risk patients. N Engl J Med 2014;371:203–212
8. Rajpathak SN, Kumbhani DJ, Crandall J, Barzilai N, Alderman M, Ridker PM. Statin therapy and risk of developing type 2 diabetes: a meta-analysis. Diabetes Care 2009;32:1924–1929
9. Sattar N, Preiss D, Murray HM, et al. Statins and risk of incident diabetes: a collaborative meta-analysis of randomised statin trials. Lancet 2010;375:735–742
10. Ridker PM, Pradhan A, MacFadyen JG, Libby P, Glynn RJ. Cardiovascular benefits and diabetes risks of statin therapy in primary prevention: an analysis from the JUPITER trial. Lancet 2012;380:565–571
11. Mach F, Ray KK, Wiklund O, et al.; European Atherosclerosis Society Consensus Panel. Adverse effects of statin therapy: perception vs. the evidence - focus on glucose homeostasis, cognitive, renal and hepatic function, haemorrhagic stroke and cataract. Eur Heart J 2018;39:2526–2539
12. Heart Protection Study Collaborative Group. MRC/BHF Heart Protection Study of cholesterol lowering with simvastatin in 20,536 high-risk individuals: a randomised placebo-controlled trial. Lancet 2002;360:7–22
13. Shepherd J, Blauw GJ, Murphy MB, et al.; PROSPER study group. PROspective Study of Pravastatin in the Elderly at Risk. Pravastatin in elderly individuals at risk of vascular disease (PROSPER): a randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2002;360:1623–1630
14. Trompet S, van Vliet P, de Craen AJM, et al. Pravastatin and cognitive function in the elderly. Results of the PROSPER study. J Neurol 2010;257:85–90
15. Yusuf S, Bosch J, Dagenais G, et al.; HOPE-3 Investigators. Cholesterol lowering in intermediate-risk persons without cardiovascular disease. N Engl J Med 2016;374:2021–2031
16. Giugliano RP, Mach F, Zavitz K, et al.; EBBINGHAUS Investigators. Cognitive function in a randomized trial of evolocumab. N Engl J Med 2017;377:633–643

References:

1. Olmastroni E, Molari G, De Beni N, et al. Statin use and risk of dementia or Alzheimer’s disease: a systematic review and meta-analysis of observational studies. Eur J Prev Cardiol 2022;29:804–814
2. Richardson K, Schoen M, French B, et al. Statins and cognitive function: a systematic review. Ann Intern Med 2013;159:688–697
3. Adhikari A, Tripathy S, Chuzi S, Peterson J, Stone NJ. Association between statin use and cognitive function: a systematic review of randomized clinical trials and observational studies. N J Clin Lipidol 2021;15:22–32
4. Perk J, De Backer G, Gohlke H, et al. European guidelines on cardiovascular disease prevention in clinical practice (version 2012). The Fifth Joint Task Force of the European Society of Cardiology and Other Societies on Cardiovascular Disease Prevention in Clinical Practice. Eur Heart J 2012;33:1635–1701
5. Belch J, MacCuish A, Campbell I, et al.; Royal College of Physicians Edinburgh. The Prevention of Progression of Arterial Disease and Diabetes (POPADAD) trial: factorial randomised placebo controlled trial of aspirin and antioxidants in patients with diabetes and asymptomatic peripheral arterial disease. BMJ 2008;337:a1840
6. Zhang C, Sun A, Zhang P, et al. Aspirin for primary prevention of cardiovascular events in patients with diabetes: a meta-analysis. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2010;87:211–218
7. De Berardis G, Sacco M, Strippoli GFM, et al. Aspirin for primary prevention of cardiovascular events in people with diabetes: meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials. BMJ 2009;339:b4531
8. Baigent C, Blackwell L, Collins R, et al.; Antithrombotic Trialists’ (ATT) Collaboration. Aspirin in the primary and secondary prevention of vascular disease: collaborative meta-analysis of individual participant data from randomised trials. Lancet 2009;373:1849–1860
9. Bowman L, Mafham M, Wallendszus K, et al.; ASCEND Study Collaborative Group. Effects of aspirin for primary prevention in persons with diabetes mellitus. N Engl J Med 2018;379:1529–1539
10. McNeil JJ, Wolfe R, Woods RL, et al.; ASPREE Investigator Group. Effect of aspirin on cardiovascular events and bleeding in the healthy elderly. N Engl J Med 2018;379:1509–1518
11. Pignone M, Earnshaw S, Tice JA, Pletcher MJ. Aspirin, statins, or both drugs for the primary prevention of coronary heart disease events in men: a cost-utility analysis. Ann Intern Med 2006;144:326–336
12. Huxley RR, Peters SAE, Mishra GD, Woodward M. Risk of all-cause mortality and vascular events in women versus men with type 1 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2015;3:198–206
13. Peters SAE, Huxley RR, Woodward M. Diabetes as risk factor for incident coronary heart disease in women compared with men: a systematic review and meta-analysis of 64 cohorts. Lancet 2019;381:1309–1320

2026 January 29 on guest by Download





diabetesjournals.org/care
# Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management

S243

artery disease with a history of previous percutaneous coronary intervention (THEMIS-PCI): a phase 3, placebo-controlled, randomised trial. Lancet 2019;394:1169–1180

191. Angiolillo DJ, Baber U, Sartori S, et al. Ticagrelor with or without aspirin in high-risk patients with diabetes mellitus undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention. J Am Coll Cardiol 2020;75:2403–2413

192. Wiebe J, Ndrepepa G, Kufner S, et al. Early aspirin discontinuation after coronary stenting: a systematic review and meta-analysis. J Am Heart Assoc 2021;10:e018304

193. Kleindorfer DO, Towfighi A, Chaturvedi S, et al. 2021 Guideline for the prevention of stroke in patients with stroke and transient ischemic attack: a guideline from the American Heart Association/American Stroke Association. Stroke 2021;52:e364–e467

194. Bhatt DL, Eikelboom JW, Connolly SJ, et al.; COMPASS Steering Committee and Investigators. Role of combination antiplatelet and anticoagulation therapy in diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular disease: insights from the COMPASS trial. Circulation 2020;141:1841–1854

195. Connolly SJ, Eikelboom JW, Bosch J, et al.; COMPASS investigators. Rivaroxaban with or without aspirin in patients with stable coronary artery disease: an international, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Lancet 2018;391:205–218

196. Bonaca MP, Bauersachs RM, Anand SS, et al. Rivaroxaban in peripheral artery disease after revascularization. N Engl J Med 2020;382:1994–2004

197. Boden WE, O’Rourke RA, Teo KK, et al.; COURAGE Trial Research Group. Optimal medical therapy with or without PCI for stable coronary disease. N Engl J Med 2007;356:1503–1516

198. Frye RL, August P, Brooks MM, et al.; BARI 2D Study Group. A randomized trial of therapies for type 2 diabetes and coronary artery disease. N Engl J Med 2009;360:2503–2515

199. Young LH, Wackers FJT, Chyun DA, et al.; DIAD Investigators. Cardiac outcomes after screening for asymptomatic coronary artery disease in patients with type 2 diabetes: the DIAD study: a randomized controlled trial. JAMA 2009;301:1547–1555

200. Muhlestein JB, Lappé DL, Lima JAC, et al. Effect of screening for coronary artery disease using CT angiography on mortality and cardiac events in high-risk patients with diabetes: the FACTOR-64 randomized clinical trial. JAMA 2014;312:2234–2243

201. Wackers FJT, Young LH, Inzucchi SE, et al.; Detection of Ischemia in Asymptomatic Diabetics Investigators. Detection of silent myocardial ischemia in asymptomatic diabetic subjects: the DIAD study. Diabetes Care 2004;27:1954–1961

202. Scognamiglio R, Negut C, Ramondo A, Tiengo A, Avogaro A. Detection of coronary artery disease in asymptomatic patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. J Am Coll Cardiol 2006;47:65–71

203. Elkeles RS, Godsland IF, Feher MD, et al.; PREDICT Study Group. Coronary calcium measurement improves prediction of cardiovascular events in asymptomatic patients with type 2 diabetes: the PREDICT study. Eur Heart J 2008;29:2244–2251

204. Malik S, Zhao Y, Budoff M, et al. Coronary artery calcium score for long-term risk classification in individuals with type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease. JAMA 2003;289:194–202

205. McAllister DA, Read SH, Kerssens J, et al. Incidence of hospitalization for heart failure and case-fatality among 3.25 million people with and without diabetes mellitus. Circulation 2018;138:2774–2786

206. Ohkuma T, Komorita Y, Peters SAE, Woodward M. Diabetes as a risk factor for heart failure in women and men: a systematic review and meta-analysis of 47 cohorts including 12 million individuals. Diabetologia 2019;62:1550–1560

207. Birkeland KI, Bodegard J, Eriksson JW, et al. Heart failure and chronic kidney disease mortality risk associations in type 2 diabetes: a large multinational cohort study. Diabetes Obes Metab 2020;22:1607–1618

208. Segar MW, Patel KV, Vaduganathan M, et al. Association of long-term change and variability in glycemia with risk of incident heart failure among patients with type 2 diabetes: a secondary analysis of the ACCORD trial. Diabetes Care 2020;43:1920–1928

209. Echouffo-Tcheugui JB, Ndumele CE, Zhang S, et al. Diabetes and progression of heart failure: the Atherosclerosis Risk In Communities (ARIC) study. J Am Coll Cardiol 2022;79:2285–2293

210. Ledwidge M, Gallagher J, Conlon C, et al. Natriuretic peptide-based screening and collaborative care for heart failure: the STOP-HF randomized trial. JAMA 2013;310:66–74

211. Huelsmann M, Neuhold S, Resl M, et al. PONTIAC (NT-proBNP selected prevention of cardiac events in a population of diabetic patients without a history of cardiac disease): a prospective randomized controlled trial. J Am Coll Cardiol 2013;62:1365–1372

212. Januzzi JL, Xu J, Li J, et al. Effects of canagliflozin on amino-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide: implications for cardiovascular risk reduction. J Am Coll Cardiol 2020;76:2076–2085

213. Jarolim P, White WB, Cannon CP, Gao Q, Morrow DA. Serial measurement of natriuretic peptides and cardiovascular outcomes in patients with type 2 diabetes in the EXAMINE trial. Diabetes Care 2018;41:1510–1515

214. Pandey A, Vaduganathan M, Patel KV, et al. Biomarker-based risk prediction of incident heart failure in pre-diabetes and diabetes. JACC Heart Fail 2021;9:215–223

215. Rørth R, Jørgensen PG, Andersen HU, et al. Cardiovascular prognostic value of echocardiography and N terminal pro B-type natriuretic peptide in type 1 diabetes: the Thousand &#x26; 1 Study. Eur J Endocrinol 2020;182:481–488

216. Gaede P, Vedel P, Larsen N, Jensen GVH, Parving H-H, Pedersen O. Multifactorial intervention and cardiovascular disease in patients with type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2003;348:383–393

217. Gaede P, Hildebrandt P, Hess G, Parving H-H, Pedersen O. Plasma N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide as a major risk marker for cardiovascular disease in patients with type 2 diabetes and microalbuminuria. Diabetologia 2005;48:156–163

218. Redfield MM, Jacobsen SJ, Burnett JC, Mahoney DW, Bailey KR, Rodeheffer RJ. Burden of systolic and diastolic ventricular dysfunction in the community: appreciating the scope of the heart failure epidemic. JAMA 2003;289:194–202

219. Heidenreich PA, Bozkurt B, Aguilar D, et al. 2022 AHA/ACC/HFSA guideline for the management of heart failure: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Joint Committee on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Circulation 2022;145:e895–e1032

220. Selvin E, Erlinger TP. Prevalence of and risk factors for peripheral arterial disease in the United States: results from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, 1999-2000. Circulation 2004;110:738–743

221. Leibson CL, Ransom JE, Olson W, Zimmerman BR, O’fallon WM, Palumbo PJ. Peripheral arterial disease, diabetes, and mortality. Diabetes Care 2004;27:2843–2849

222. Murabito JM, D’Agostino RB, Silbershatz H, Wilson WF. Intermittent claudication. A risk profile from The Framingham Heart Study. Circulation 1997;96:44–49

223. Hirsch AT, Criqui MH, Treat-Jacobson D, et al. Peripheral arterial disease detection, awareness, and treatment in primary care. JAMA 2001;286:1317–1324

224. Lange S, Diehm C, Darius H, et al. High prevalence of peripheral arterial disease and low treatment rates in elderly primary care patients with diabetes. Exp Clin Endocrinol Diabetes 2004;112:566–573

225. Grøndal N, Søgaard R, Lindholt JS. Baseline prevalence of abdominal aortic aneurysm, peripheral arterial disease and hypertension in men aged 65-74 years from a population screening study (VIVA trial). Br J Surg 2015;102:902–906

226. Adler AI, Stevens RJ, Neil A, Stratton IM, Boulton AJM, Holman RR. UKPDS 59: hyperglycemia and other potentially modifiable risk factors for peripheral vascular disease in type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care 2002;25:894–899

227. Al-Delaimy WK, Merchant AT, Rimm EB, Willett WC, Stampfer MJ, Hu FB. Effect of type 2 diabetes and its duration on the risk of peripheral arterial disease among men. Am J Med 2004;116:236–240

228. Beckman JA, Duncan MS, Damrauer SM, et al. Microvascular disease, peripheral artery disease, and amputation. Circulation 2019;140:449–458

229. Olesen KKW, Anand S, Thim T, Gyldenkerne C, Maeng M. Microvascular disease increases the risk of lower limb amputation–a Western Danish cohort study. Eur J Clin Invest 2022;52:e13812

230. Smolderen KG, Ameli O, Chaisson CE, Heath K, Mena-Hurtado C. Peripheral artery disease screening in the community and 1-year mortality, cardiovascular events, and adverse limb events. AJPM Focus 2022;1:100016

231. Smolderen KG, Heath K, Scherr T, Bauzon SR, Howell AN, Mena-Hurtado C. The Nevada peripheral artery disease screening effort in a Medicare Advantage population and subsequent mortality and major adverse cardiovascular event risk. J Vasc Surg 2022;75:2054–2064

232. Lindholt JS, Søgaard R. Population screening and intervention for vascular disease in Danish men (VIVA): a randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2017;390:2256–2265

233. Bonaca MP, Nault P, Giugliano RP, et al. Low-density lipoprotein cholesterol lowering with evolocumab and outcomes in patients with peripheral artery disease: insights from the FOURIER trial (Further Cardiovascular Outcomes)

January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf from Downloaded




# Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management

# Diabetes Care Volume 49, Supplement 1, January 2026

Research With PCSK9 Inhibition in Subjects With Elevated Risk). Circulation 2018;137:338–350

| 234. | Eikelboom JW, Connolly SJ, Bosch J, et al.; COMPASS Investigators. Rivaroxaban with or without aspirin in stable cardiovascular disease. N Engl J Med 2017;377:1319–1330                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| ---- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 235. | Bonaca MP, Catarig A-M, Houlind K, et al.; STRIDE Trial Investigators. Semaglutide and walking capacity in people with symptomatic peripheral artery disease and type 2 diabetes (STRIDE): a phase 3b, double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled trial. Lancet 2025;405:1580–1593                                                                                                                    |
| 236. | Wing RR, Bolin P, Brancati FL, et al.; Look AHEAD Research Group. Cardiovascular effects of intensive lifestyle intervention in type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2013;369:145–154                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| 237. | Yusuf S, Sleight P, Pogue J, Bosch J, Davies R, Dagenais G; Heart Outcomes Prevention Evaluation Study Investigators. Effects of an angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitor, ramipril, on cardiovascular events in high-risk patients. N Engl J Med 2000;342:145–153                                                                                                                                    |
| 238. | Braunwald E, Domanski MJ, Fowler SE, et al.; PEACE Trial Investigators. Angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibition in stable coronary artery disease. N Engl J Med 2004;351:2058–2068                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| 239. | Filippatos G, Anker SD, Agarwal R, et al.; FIGARO-DKD Investigators. Finerenone reduces risk of incident heart failure in patients with chronic kidney disease and type 2 diabetes: analyses from the FIGARO-DKD trial. Circulation 2022;145:437–447                                                                                                                                                    |
| 240. | Pitt B, Filippatos G, Agarwal R, et al.; FIGARO-DKD Investigators. Cardiovascular events with finerenone in kidney disease and type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2021;385:2252–2263                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| 241. | Agarwal R, Filippatos G, Pitt B, et al.; FIDELIO-DKD and FIGARO-DKD investigators. Cardiovascular and kidney outcomes with finerenone in patients with type 2 diabetes and chronic kidney disease: the FIDELITY pooled analysis. Eur Heart J 2022;43:474–484                                                                                                                                            |
| 242. | Anker SD, Butler J, Filippatos G, et al.; EMPEROR-Preserved Trial Investigators. Empagliflozin in heart failure with a preserved ejection fraction. N Engl J Med 2021;385:1451–1461                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| 243. | Kezerashvili A, Marzo K, De Leon J. Beta blocker use after acute myocardial infarction in the patient with normal systolic function: when is it “ok” to discontinue? Curr Cardiol Rev 2012;8:77–84                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| 244. | Fihn SD, Gardin JM, Abrams J, et al. 2012 ACCF/AHA/ACP/AATS/PCNA/SCAI/STS guideline for the diagnosis and management of patients with stable ischemic heart disease. J Am Coll Cardiol 2012;60:e44–e164                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| 245. | U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Guidance for Industry. Diabetes Mellitus—Evaluating Cardiovascular Risk in New Antidiabetic Therapies to Treat Type 2 Diabetes. Silver Spring, MD, 2008. Accessed 19 August 2025. Available from <https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2008/12/19/E8-30086/guidance-for-industry-on-diabetes-mellitus-evaluating-cardiovascular-risk-in-new-antidiabetic>       |
| 246. | U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Diabetes Mellitus: Efficacy Endpoints for Clinical Trials Investigating Antidiabetic Drugs and Biological Products. Silver Spring, MD, 2023. Accessed 19 August 2025. Available from <https://www.fda.gov/regulatory-information/search-fda-guidance-documents/diabetes-mellitus-efficacy-endpoints-clinical-trials-investigating-antidiabetic-drugs-and-biological> |

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf from Downloaded





diabetesjournals.org/care
# Cardiovascular Disease and Risk Management

S245

lity and the development of heart failure in with preserved ejection fraction: a multicenter randomized trial. Nat Med 2021;27:1954–1960 et al.; FINEARTS-HF Committees and Investigators.

asymptomatic patients with reduced left ventricular ejection fractions. N Engl J Med 1992;327:685–691

276. Pfeffer MA, Braunwald E, Moyé LA, et al. Effect of captopril on mortality and morbidity in patients with left ventricular dysfunction after myocardial infarction. Results of the survival and ventricular enlargement trial. The SAVE Investigators. N Engl J Med 1992;327:669–677

277. Exner DV, Dries DL, Waclawiw MA, Shelton B, Domanski MJ. Beta-adrenergic blocking agent use and mortality in patients with asymptomatic and symptomatic left ventricular systolic dysfunction: a post hoc analysis of the Studies of Left Ventricular Dysfunction. J Am Coll Cardiol 1999;33:916–923

278. Vantrimpont P, Rouleau JL, Wun CC, et al. Additive beneficial effects of beta-blockers to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors in the Survival and Ventricular Enlargement (SAVE) study. SAVE Investigators. J Am Coll Cardiol 1997;29:229–236

279. Dargie HJ. Effect of carvedilol on outcome after myocardial infarction in patients with left-ventricular dysfunction: the CAPRICORN randomised trial. Lancet 2001;357:1385–1390

280. Colucci WS, Kolias TJ, Adams KF, et al.; REVERT Study Group. Metoprolol reverses left ventricular remodeling in patients with asymptomatic systolic dysfunction: the REversal of VEntricular Remodeling with Toprol-XL (REVERT) trial. Circulation 2007;116:49–56

281. Zinman B, Wanner C, Lachin JM, et al.; EMPA-REG OUTCOME Investigators. Empagliflozin, cardiovascular outcomes, and mortality in type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2015;373:2117–2128

282. Wiviott SD, Raz I, Bonaca MP, et al.; DECLARE–TIMI 58 Investigators. Dapagliflozin and cardiovascular outcomes in type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2019;380:347–357

283. Bhatt DL, Szarek M, Pitt B, et al.; SCORED Investigators. Sotagliflozin in patients with diabetes and chronic kidney disease. N Engl J Med 2021;384:129–139

284. Pratley RE, Tuttle KR, Rossing P, et al.; FLOW Trial Committees and Investigators. Effects of semaglutide on heart failure outcomes in diabetes and chronic kidney disease in the FLOW trial. J Am Coll Cardiol 2024;84:1615–1628

285. Bakris GL, Agarwal R, Anker SD, et al.; FIDELIO-DKD Investigators. Effect of finerenone on chronic kidney disease outcomes in type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2020;383:2219–2229

286. Fitchett D, Butler J, van de Borne P, et al.; EMPA-REG OUTCOME trial investigators. Effects of empagliflozin on risk for cardiovascular death and heart failure hospitalization across the spectrum of heart failure risk in the EMPA-REG OUTCOME trial. Eur Heart J 2018;39:363–370

287. McMurray JJV, Solomon SD, Inzucchi SE, et al.; DAPA-HF Trial Committees and Investigators. Dapagliflozin in patients with heart failure and reduced ejection fraction. N Engl J Med 2019;381:1995–2008

288. Arnott C, Li Q, Kang A, et al. Sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibition for the prevention of cardiovascular events in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: a systematic review and meta-analysis. J Am Heart Assoc 2020;9:e014908

289. Nassif ME, Windsor SL, Borlaug BA, et al. The SGLT2 inhibitor dapagliflozin in heart failure. N Engl J Med 2021;384:117–128

290. Solomon SD, McMurray JJV, Claggett B, et al.; DELIVER Trial Committees and Investigators. Dapagliflozin in heart failure with mildly reduced or preserved ejection fraction. N Engl J Med 2022;387:1089–1098

291. Packer M, Anker SD, Butler J, et al.; EMPEROR-Reduced Trial Investigators. Cardiovascular and renal outcomes with empagliflozin in heart failure. N Engl J Med 2020;383:1413–1424

292. Packer M, Anker SD, Butler J, et al. Effect of empagliflozin on the clinical stability of patients with heart failure and a reduced ejection fraction: the EMPEROR-Reduced trial. Circulation 2021;143:326–336

293. Voors AA, Angermann CE, Teerlink JR, et al. The SGLT2 inhibitor empagliflozin in patients hospitalized for acute heart failure: a multinational randomized trial. Nat Med 2022;28:568–574

294. Spertus JA, Birmingham MC, Nassif M, et al. The SGLT2 inhibitor canagliflozin in heart failure: the CHIEF-HF remote, patient-centered randomized trial. Nat Med 2022;28:809–813

295. American Diabetes Association Professional Practice Committee. 10. Cardiovascular disease and risk management: Standards of Care in Diabetes—2024. Diabetes Care 2024;47:S179–S218

296. Bhatt DL, Szarek M, Steg PG, et al.; SOLOIST-WHF Trial Investigators. Sotagliflozin in patients with diabetes and recent worsening heart failure. N Engl J Med 2021;384:117–128

297. Vaduganathan M, Docherty KF, Claggett BL, et al. SGLT-2 inhibitors in patients with heart failure: a comprehensive meta-analysis of five randomised controlled trials. Lancet 2022;400:757–767

298. Musso G, Sircana A, Saba F, Cassader M, Gambino R. Assessing the risk of ketoacidosis due to sodium-glucose cotransporter (SGLT)-2 inhibitors in patients with type 1 diabetes: a meta-analysis and meta-regression. PLoS Med 2020;17:e1003461

299. Danne T, Garg S, Peters AL, et al. International consensus on risk management of diabetic ketoacidosis in patients with type 1 diabetes treated with sodium-glucose cotransporter (SGLT) inhibitors. Diabetes Care 2019;42:1147–1154

300. Holt RIG, DeVries JH, Hess-Fischl A, et al. The management of type 1 diabetes in adults. A consensus report by the American Diabetes Association (ADA) and the European Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD). Diabetes Care 2021;44:2589–2625

301. Palanca A, van Nes F, Pardo F, Ampudia Blasco FJ, Mathieu C. Real-world evidence of efficacy and safety of SGLT2 inhibitors as adjunctive therapy in adults with type 1 diabetes: a European Two-Center Experience. Diabetes Care 2022;45:650–658

302. U.S. Food and Drug Administration. 2019 Meeting Materials, January 17, 2019, Meeting of the Endocrinologic and Metabolic Drugs Advisory Committee, 2019. Accessed 19 August 2025. Available from https://www.fda.gov/drugs/drug-safety-and-availability/fda-drug-safety-communication-fda-revises-warnings-regarding-use-diabetes-medicine-metformin-certain

303. Solomon SD, McMurray JJV, Vaduganathan M, et al.; FINEARTS-HF Committees and Investigators. Finerenone in heart failure with mildly reduced or preserved ejection fraction. N Engl J Med 2024;391:1475–1485

304. Echouffo-Tcheugui JB, Xu H, DeVore AD, et al. Temporal trends and factors associated with diabetes mellitus among patients hospitalized with heart failure: findings from Get With The Guidelines-Heart Failure registry. Am Heart J 2016;182:9–20

305. Haass M, Kitzman DW, Anand IS, et al. Body mass index and adverse cardiovascular outcomes in heart failure patients with preserved ejection fraction: results from the Irbesartan in Heart Failure with Preserved Ejection Fraction (I-PRESERVE) trial. Circ Heart Fail 2011;4:324–331

306. Kosiborod MN, Petrie MC, Borlaug BA, et al.; STEP-HFpEF DM Trial Committees and Investigators. Semaglutide in patients with obesity-related heart failure and type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2024;390:1394–1407

307. Packer M, Zile MR, Kramer CM, et al.; SUMMIT Trial Study Group. Tirzepatide for heart failure with preserved ejection fraction and obesity. N Engl J Med 2025;392:427–437

308. Dormandy JA, Charbonnel B, Eckland DJA, et al.; PROactive Investigators. Secondary prevention of macrovascular events in patients with type 2 diabetes in the PROactive Study (PROspective pioglitAzone Clinical Trial In macro-Vascular Events): a randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2005;366:1279–1289

309. Lincoff AM, Wolski K, Nicholls SJ, Nissen SE. Pioglitazone and risk of cardiovascular events in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: a meta-analysis of randomized trials. JAMA 2007;298:1180–1188

310. U.S. Food and Drug Administration. FDA drug safety communication: FDA revises warnings regarding use of the diabetes medicine metformin in certain patients with reduced kidney function, 2016. Accessed 19 August 2025. Available from https://www.fda.gov/drugs/drug-safety-and-availability/fda-drug-safety-communication-fda-revises-warnings-regarding-use-diabetes-medicine-metformin-certain

311. Scirica BM, Bhatt DL, Braunwald E, et al.; SAVOR-TIMI 53 Steering Committee and Investigators. Saxagliptin and cardiovascular outcomes in patients with type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2015;373:232–242

312. Rosenstock J, Perkovic V, Johansen OE, et al.; CARMELINA Investigators. Effect of linagliptin vs placebo on major cardiovascular events in adults with type 2 diabetes and high cardiovascular and renal risk: the CARMELINA randomized clinical trial. JAMA 2019;321:69–79

313. American Diabetes Association Primary Care Advisory Group. Cardiovascular disease and risk management: Standards of Care in Diabetes—2024 abridged for primary care professionals. Clin Diabetes 2024;42:209–211

2026 January 29 on guest by http://diabetesjournals.org/care/article-pdf/49/Supplement_1/S216/848870/dc26s010.pdf from Downloaded